## Metered metrics monitoring

The basic Azure Monitor billing model is a cloud-friendly, consumption-based pricing ("pay-as-you-go"). You only pay for what you use. Pricing details are available for [metrics](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/) as well as alerting, notifications, Log Analytics and Application Insights.

If you are actively using Azure services, use Azure to monitor your [usage and estimated costs](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/usage-estimated-costs).

If you have not yet purchased Azure Monitor, see [Azure Monitor pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/monitor/) for pricing details and FAQs. You can also use the [Pricing Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/calculator/) to determine your pricing. The Pricing Calculator will help you estimate your likely costs based on your expected utilization.

- **Data-driven processes** - Performance testing should always be based on data captured from repeatable processes. In order to understand how an application's performance is affected by code and infrastructure changes, data must be kept and monitored. Additionally, it is important to understand how performance has changed _over time_, not just compared to the last measurement taken. It is often helpful to store such data in a time-series database (TSDB) and then view the data from an operational dashboard. An [Azure Data Explorer cluster](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/data-explorer/) is a powerful TSDB that can store any schema of data, including performance test metrics. [Grafana](https://grafana.com/), an open source platform for observability dashboards, can then be leveraged to query your Azure Data Explorer cluster to view performance trends in your application.

- [**Identify improvement opportunities**]()&mdash;First, The first step for determining options for improvement is to ensure that you are capturing telemetry throughout your application. [Application Insights](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) provides some great telemetry out of the box, and you can customize what is captured for even greater visibility. Next, you may want to compare your code to proven architectures in the [Cloud Design Patterns](../../patterns/index-patterns). By referencing the design patterns, you can avoid common mistakes by developers who are deploying applications into the cloud. Finally, you may consider other Azure services that may be more appropriate for your objectives. While Azure has many services that seem to overlap in capabilities, often there are specific use-cases for which the services are designed.


- **Troubleshooting** - Troubleshooting an application's performance requires continuous monitoring and reliable investigation. Issues in performance can arise from database queries, connectivity between services, under-provision resources, or memory leaks in code. Application telemetry and profiling can be useful tools for troubleshooting your application. Additionally, network traffic capturing tools, such as [Azure Network Watcher](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/network-watcher/network-watcher-monitoring-overview), can be extremely helpful.
