docs/example-scenario/infrastructure/wordpress-appservice-content.md, before:

<!-- cSpell:ignore wordpress -->

This solution is ideal for small to medium-sized WordPress installations. It provides the scalability, reliability, and security of the Azure platform without the need for complex configuration or management. For larger or storage-intensive installations, see other [hosting options for WordPress](/azure/wordpress#wordpress-hosting-options-on-azure).

## Architecture

[![Architecture overview of the WordPress deployment in App Service](media/wordpress-appservice.png)](media/wordpress-appservice.png#lightbox)

> [!NOTE]
> This architecture can be extended and combined with other tips and recommendations that are not specific to any particular WordPress hosting method. [Learn more about tips for WordPress](/azure/architecture/example-scenario/infrastructure/wordpress)

### Dataflow

This scenario covers a scalable and secure installation of WordPress that uses a [WordPress on App Service deployment option](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-wordpress).

- Users access the front-end website through [Azure Front Door](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/frontdoor). As an alternative, you can use [Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN)](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cdn) in the WordPress on App Service deployment.
- Front Door load balances requests across the Azure App Service instances that WordPress is running on. Front Door pulls any data that isn't cached from the WordPress web app.
- The WordPress application accesses the [Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/overview) through the service endpoint and pulls any dynamic information out.
- All static content is hosted in [Azure Blob Storage](/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-overview).

### Components

- [WordPress on App Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-wordpress) is a managed solution template, combined from [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/appservice) and other Azure services mentioned below
- [Azure Front Door](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/frontdoor) *or* [Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN)](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cdn) product are a Microsoft’s modern cloud Content Delivery Network (CDN), distributed network of servers that efficiently delivers web content to users. CDNs minimize latency by storing cached content on edge servers in point-of-presence locations near to end users.
- [Virtual networks](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/virtual-network) allow resources to securely communicate with each other, the Internet, and on-premises networks. Virtual networks provide isolation and segmentation, filter and route traffic, and allow connection between locations. The two networks are connected via Vnet peering.
- [Azure DDoS Protection Standard](/azure/ddos-protection/ddos-protection-overview), combined with application-design best practices, provides enhanced DDoS mitigation features to provide more defense against DDoS attacks. You should enable [Azure DDOS Protection Standard](/azure/ddos-protection/ddos-protection-overview) on any perimeter virtual network.
- [Network security groups](/azure/virtual-network/security-overview) contain a list of security rules that allow or deny inbound or outbound network traffic based on source or destination IP address, port, and protocol. The virtual networks in this scenario are secured with network security group rules that restrict the flow of traffic between the application components.
- [Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/active-directory) is used to store and tightly control access to passwords, certificates, and keys.
- [Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible server](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/mysql/) is database used to store WordPress data.
- [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/storage/blobs/) is scalable and secure object storage for cloud-native workloads, archives, data lakes, high-performance computing, and machine learning.

### Potential use cases

- Media events that cause traffic surges.
- Blogs that use WordPress as their content management system.
- Business or e-commerce websites that use WordPress.
- Web sites built using other content management systems.

### Alternatives

- [Azure Cache for Redis](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cache/) can be used to host key-value cache for WordPress performance optimization plugins that all App Service instances share.

## Considerations

These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, see [Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework](/azure/architecture/framework).

### Reliability

Reliability ensures your application can meet the commitments you make to your customers. For more information, see [Overview of the reliability pillar](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/overview). Consider the following recommendations for your deployment:

- App Service provides built-in load balancing and health check features to maintain availability if an App Service instance fails.
Using the CDN to cache all responses can provide a small availability benefit when the origin isn't responding. However, it's important to note that caching shouldn't be considered a complete availability solution.

- You can replicate Azure Blob Storage to a paired region for data redundancy across multiple regions. For more information, see [Azure Storage redundancy](/azure/storage/common/storage-disaster-recovery-guidance).
- For higher Azure Database for MySQL availability, see [high availability options](/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-high-availability) to meet your needs.

### Performance efficiency

Performance efficiency is the ability of your workload to scale to meet the demands placed on it by users in an efficient manner. For more information, see [Performance efficiency pillar overview](/azure/architecture/framework/scalability/overview).

This scenario hosts the WordPress front-end in App Service. You should enable the autoscale feature to automatically scale the number of App Service instances. You can set a trigger to response to customer demand or based on a defined schedule. For more information, see [Get started with autoscale in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/autoscale/autoscale-get-started) and [Performance efficiency principles](/azure/well-architected/scalability/principles) in the Azure Architecture Center.

### Security

Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the abuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, see [Overview of the security pillar](/azure/architecture/framework/security/overview). Consider the following recommendations in your deployment:

- All the virtual network traffic point into the front-end application tier and should be protected by [WAF on Azure Front Door](/azure/web-application-firewall/afds/afds-overview). 
- No outbound internet traffic from the database tier is allowed. 
- There's no public access to private storage. 

For more information about WordPress security, see [General WordPress security&performance tips](/azure/wordpress#general-wordpress-securityperformance-tips) and [Azure Security Documentation][security].

### Cost optimization

Cost optimization is about reducing unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. For more information, see [Overview of the cost optimization pillar](/azure/architecture/framework/cost/overview). Consider the following recommendations in your deployment:

- **Traffic expectations (GB/month):** The amount of traffic has the biggest effect on your cost, as it determines the number of App Service instances and price for outbound data transfer. Additionally, it directly correlates with the amount of data that is surfaced via the CDN, where are outbound data transfer costs cheaper.
- **Amount of hosted data:** It's important to consider how much data you're hosting in Azure Storage. Storage pricing is based on used capacity.
- **Writes percentage:** How much new data are you going to be writing to your website? New data written to your website correlates with how much data is mirrored across the regions.
- **Static versus dynamic content:** You should monitor your database storage performance and capacity to see if a cheaper SKU can support your site. The database stores dynamic content and the CDN caches static content. 
- **App Service optimalization:** To optimize App Service costs, follow general tips for [App Service Cost Optimization](/azure/well-architected/services/compute/azure-app-service/cost-optimization).

## Contributors

*Microsoft maintains this article. The following authors original wrote the article.*

Principal author:

[Vaclav Jirovsky](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vaclavjirovsky) | Cloud Solution Architect

Other contributors:

- Adrian Calinescu | Sr. Cloud Solution Architect

## Next steps

Product documentation:

- [What is Azure Front Door?](/azure/frontdoor/front-door-overview)
- [What is Azure Web Application Firewall?](/azure/web-application-firewall/overview)
- [What is Azure Blob Storage?](/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-overview)
- [What is Azure Virtual Network?](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview)
- [About Azure Key Vault](/azure/key-vault/general/overview)
- [Quickstart: Create a WordPress site](/azure/app-service/quickstart-wordpress)

Microsoft Learn modules:

- [Load balance your web service traffic with Front Door](/training/modules/create-first-azure-front-door/)
- [Implement Azure Key Vault](/training/modules/implement-azure-key-vault)
- [Introduction to Azure Virtual Networks](/training/modules/introduction-to-azure-virtual-networks)

## Related resources

- [Ten design principles for Azure applications](../../guide/design-principles/index.md)
- [Scalable cloud applications and site reliability engineering](../../example-scenario/apps/scalable-apps-performance-modeling-site-reliability.yml)

<!-- links -->

[security]: /azure/security

Commit message:

Apply suggestions from code review: app service

docs/example-scenario/infrastructure/wordpress-appservice-content.md, after:

<!-- cSpell:ignore wordpress -->

This solution is ideal for small to medium-sized WordPress installations. It provides the scalability, reliability, and security of the Azure platform without the need for complex configuration or management. For larger or storage-intensive installations, see other [hosting options for WordPress](/azure/wordpress#wordpress-hosting-options-on-azure).

## Architecture

[![Architecture overview of the WordPress deployment in App Service](media/wordpress-appservice.png)](media/wordpress-appservice.png#lightbox)

> [!NOTE]
> This architecture can be extended and combined with other tips and recommendations that are not specific to any particular WordPress hosting method. [Learn more about tips for WordPress](/azure/architecture/example-scenario/infrastructure/wordpress)

### Dataflow

This scenario covers a scalable and secure installation of WordPress that uses a [WordPress on App Service deployment option](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-wordpress).

- Users access the front-end website through [Azure Front Door](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/frontdoor). As an alternative, you can use [Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN)](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cdn) in the WordPress on App Service deployment.
- Front Door load balances requests across the Azure App Service instances that WordPress is running on. Front Door pulls any data that isn't cached from the WordPress web app.
- The WordPress application accesses the [Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible Server](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/mysql/flexible-server/overview) through the service endpoint and pulls any dynamic information out.
- All static content is hosted in [Azure Blob Storage](/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-overview).

### Components

- [WordPress on App Service](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/app-service/quickstart-wordpress) is a managed solution template, combined from [Azure App Service](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/appservice) and other Azure services mentioned below
- [Azure Front Door](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/frontdoor) *or* [Azure Content Delivery Network (CDN)](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cdn) product are a Microsoft’s modern cloud Content Delivery Network (CDN), distributed network of servers that efficiently delivers web content to users. CDNs minimize latency by storing cached content on edge servers in point-of-presence locations near to end users.
- [Virtual networks](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/virtual-network) allow resources to securely communicate with each other, the Internet, and on-premises networks. Virtual networks provide isolation and segmentation, filter and route traffic, and allow connection between locations. The two networks are connected via Vnet peering.
- [Azure DDoS Protection Standard](/azure/ddos-protection/ddos-protection-overview), combined with application-design best practices, provides enhanced DDoS mitigation features to provide more defense against DDoS attacks. You should enable [Azure DDOS Protection Standard](/azure/ddos-protection/ddos-protection-overview) on any perimeter virtual network.
- [Network security groups](/azure/virtual-network/security-overview) contain a list of security rules that allow or deny inbound or outbound network traffic based on source or destination IP address, port, and protocol. The virtual networks in this scenario are secured with network security group rules that restrict the flow of traffic between the application components.
- [Azure Key Vault](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/active-directory) is used to store and tightly control access to passwords, certificates, and keys.
- [Azure Database for MySQL - Flexible server](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/mysql/) is database used to store WordPress data.
- [Azure Blob Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/storage/blobs/) is scalable and secure object storage for cloud-native workloads, archives, data lakes, high-performance computing, and machine learning.

### Potential use cases

- Media events that cause traffic surges.
- Blogs that use WordPress as their content management system.
- Business or e-commerce websites that use WordPress.
- Web sites built using other content management systems.

### Alternatives

- [Azure Cache for Redis](https://azure.microsoft.com/products/cache/) can be used to host key-value cache for WordPress performance optimization plugins that all App Service instances share.

## Considerations

These considerations implement the pillars of the Azure Well-Architected Framework, which is a set of guiding tenets that can be used to improve the quality of a workload. For more information, see [Microsoft Azure Well-Architected Framework](/azure/architecture/framework).

### Reliability

Reliability ensures your application can meet the commitments you make to your customers. For more information, see [Overview of the reliability pillar](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/overview). Consider the following recommendations for your deployment:

- App Service provides built-in load balancing and health check features to maintain availability if an App Service instance fails.
- Using a CDN to cache all responses can provide a small availability benefit when the origin isn't responding. However, it's important to note that caching shouldn't be considered a complete availability solution.
- You can replicate Azure Blob Storage to a paired region for data redundancy across multiple regions. For more information, see [Azure Storage redundancy](/azure/storage/common/storage-disaster-recovery-guidance).
- For higher Azure Database for MySQL availability, see [high availability options](/azure/mysql/flexible-server/concepts-high-availability) to meet your needs.

### Performance efficiency

Performance efficiency is the ability of your workload to scale to meet the demands placed on it by users in an efficient manner. For more information, see [Performance efficiency pillar overview](/azure/architecture/framework/scalability/overview).

This scenario hosts the WordPress front-end in App Service. You should enable the autoscale feature to automatically scale the number of App Service instances. You can set a trigger to response to customer demand or based on a defined schedule. For more information, see [Get started with autoscale in Azure](/azure/azure-monitor/autoscale/autoscale-get-started) and [Performance efficiency principles](/azure/well-architected/scalability/principles) in the Azure Architecture Center.

### Security

Security provides assurances against deliberate attacks and the abuse of your valuable data and systems. For more information, see [Overview of the security pillar](/azure/architecture/framework/security/overview). Consider the following recommendations in your deployment:

- All the virtual network traffic point into the front-end application tier and should be protected by [WAF on Azure Front Door](/azure/web-application-firewall/afds/afds-overview). 
- No outbound internet traffic from the database tier is allowed. 
- There's no public access to private storage. 

For more information about WordPress security, see [General WordPress security&performance tips](/azure/wordpress#general-wordpress-securityperformance-tips) and [Azure Security Documentation][security].

### Cost optimization

Cost optimization is about reducing unnecessary expenses and improve operational efficiencies. For more information, see [Overview of the cost optimization pillar](/azure/architecture/framework/cost/overview). Review the following considerations for your deployment:

- **Traffic expectations (GB/month):** The amount of traffic has the biggest effect on your cost. It determines the number of App Service instances and price for outbound data transfer. Additionally, it correlates with the amount of data that surfaced via the CDN where the outbound data transfer costs cheaper.
- **Amount of hosted data:** It's important to consider how much data you're hosting in Azure Storage. Storage pricing is based on used capacity.
- **Writes percentage:** Consider how much new data are you going to be writing to your website and hosting in Azure Storage. Evaluate if it's needed. For multi-region deployments, new data written to your website correlates with how much data is mirrored across the regions.
- **Static versus dynamic content:** You should monitor your database storage performance and capacity to see if a cheaper SKU can support your site. The database stores dynamic content and the CDN caches static content. 
- **App Service optimalization:** To optimize App Service costs, follow general tips for [App Service Cost Optimization](/azure/well-architected/services/compute/azure-app-service/cost-optimization).

## Contributors

*Microsoft maintains this article. The following authors original wrote the article.*

Principal author:

[Vaclav Jirovsky](https://www.linkedin.com/in/vaclavjirovsky) | Cloud Solution Architect

Other contributors:

- Adrian Calinescu | Sr. Cloud Solution Architect

## Next steps

Product documentation:

- [What is Azure Front Door?](/azure/frontdoor/front-door-overview)
- [What is Azure Web Application Firewall?](/azure/web-application-firewall/overview)
- [What is Azure Blob Storage?](/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-overview)
- [What is Azure Virtual Network?](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview)
- [About Azure Key Vault](/azure/key-vault/general/overview)
- [Quickstart: Create a WordPress site](/azure/app-service/quickstart-wordpress)

Microsoft Learn modules:

- [Load balance your web service traffic with Front Door](/training/modules/create-first-azure-front-door/)
- [Implement Azure Key Vault](/training/modules/implement-azure-key-vault)
- [Introduction to Azure Virtual Networks](/training/modules/introduction-to-azure-virtual-networks)

## Related resources

- [Ten design principles for Azure applications](../../guide/design-principles/index.md)
- [Scalable cloud applications and site reliability engineering](../../example-scenario/apps/scalable-apps-performance-modeling-site-reliability.yml)

<!-- links -->

[security]: /azure/security
