---
uid: 5ef838c4-65f5-4b58-86a5-87816c352969
---
## You have set your workload availability targets

<div class="alert is-warning"><p></p></div>

Define your own target SLAs for each workload in your solution so you can determine whether the architecture meets the business requirements.

### Consider cost and complexity

Everything else being equal, higher availability is better. But as you strive for more nines, the cost and complexity grow. An uptime of 99.99% translates to about five minutes of total downtime per month. Is it worth the additional complexity and cost to reach five nines? The answer depends on the business requirements.

Here are some other considerations when defining an SLA:

- To achieve four nines (99.99%), you can't rely on manual intervention to recover from failures. The application must be self-diagnosing and self-healing.
- Beyond four nines, it's challenging to detect outages quickly enough to meet the SLA.
- Think about the time window that your SLA is measured against. The smaller the window, the tighter the tolerances. It doesn't make sense to define your SLA in terms of hourly or daily uptime.
- Consider the MTBF and MTTR measurements. The higher your SLA, the less frequently the service can go down and the quicker the service must recover.
- Get agreement from your customers for the availability targets of each piece of your application, and document it. Otherwise, your design may not meet the customers' expectations.

### Identify dependencies

Perform dependency-mapping exercises to identify internal and external dependencies. Examples include dependencies relating to security or identity, such as Active Directory, or third-party services such as a payment provider or e-mail messaging service.

Pay particular attention to external dependencies that might be a single point of failure or cause bottlenecks. If a workload requires 99.99% uptime but depends on a service with a 99.9% SLA, that service can't be a single point of failure in the system. One remedy is to have a fallback path in case the service fails. Alternatively, take other measures to recover from a failure in that service.

The following table shows the potential cumulative downtime for various SLA levels.

| **SLA** | **Downtime per week** | **Downtime per month** | **Downtime per year** |
|---------|-----------------------|------------------------|-----------------------|
| 99%     | 1.68 hours            | 7.2 hours              | 3.65 days             |
| 99.9%   | 10.1 minutes          | 43.2 minutes           | 8.76 hours            |
| 99.95%  | 5 minutes             | 21.6 minutes           | 4.38 hours            |
| 99.99%  | 1.01 minutes          | 4.32 minutes           | 52.56 minutes         |
| 99.999% | 6 seconds             | 25.9 seconds           | 5.26 minutes          |