---
uid: a50d8886-9beb-493e-87da-fc752cf3cf23
---
## Database's are architected for resiliency

<div class="alert is-warning"><p></p></div>

### Azure SQL Database

SQL Database automatically performs a combination of full database backups weekly, differential database backups hourly, and transaction log backups every five - ten minutes to protect your business from data loss. Use point-in-time restore to restore a database to an earlier time. For more information, see:

- [Recover an Azure SQL database using automated database backups](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-recovery-using-backups)

- [Overview of business continuity with Azure SQL Database](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-business-continuity)

### SQL Server on VMs

For SQL Server running on VMs, there are two options: traditional backups and log shipping. Traditional backups enables you to restore to a specific point in time, but the recovery process is slow. Restoring traditional backups requires starting with an initial full backup, and then applying any backups taken after that. The second option is to configure a log shipping session to delay the restore of log backups (for example, by two hours). This provides a window to recover from errors made on the primary.

### Azure Cosmos DB

Azure Cosmos DB automatically takes backups at regular intervals. Backups are stored separately in another storage service, and those backups are globally replicated for resiliency against regional disasters. If you accidentally delete your database or collection, you can file a support ticket or call Azure support to restore the data from the last automatic backup. For more information, see [Automatic online backup and restore with Azure Cosmos DB](/azure/cosmos-db/online-backup-and-restore).

### Azure Database for MySQL, Azure Database for PostgreSQL

When using Azure Database for MySQL or Azure Database for PostgreSQL, the database service automatically makes a backup of the service every five minutes. Using this automatic backup feature you may restore the server and all its databases into a new server to an earlier point-in-time. For more information, see:

- [How to back up and restore a server in Azure Database for MySQL by using the Azure portal](/azure/mysql/howto-restore-server-portal)

- [How to backup and restore a server in Azure Database for PostgreSQL using the Azure portal](/azure/postgresql/howto-restore-server-portal)