---
uid: c910bad6-cd8f-42ce-8076-edca3f197bd6
---
## Azure subscription/service limits are documented and known

<div class="alert is-warning"><p>Possibility of poor customer experience when hit with subscription limits.</p></div>

Azure subscriptions have limits on certain resource types, such as number of resource groups, cores, and storage accounts. To ensure that your application doesn't run up against Azure subscription limits, create alerts that poll for services nearing their limits and quotas.

Address the following subscription limits with alerts.

### Individual services

Individual Azure services have consumption limits on storage, throughput, number of connections, requests per second, and other metrics. Your application will fail if it attempts to use resources beyond these limits, resulting in service throttling and possible downtime.

Depending on the specific service and your application requirements, you can often stay under these limits by scaling up (choosing another pricing tier, for example) or scaling out (adding new instances).

### Azure storage scalability and performance targets

Azure allows a maximum number of storage accounts per subscription. If your application requires more storage accounts than are currently available in your subscription, create a new subscription with additional storage accounts. For more information, see [Azure subscription and service limits, quotas, and constraints](/azure/azure-subscription-service-limits/#storage-limits).

If you exceed Azure storage scalability and performance targets, your application will experience storage throttling. For more information, see [Azure Storage scalability and performance targets](/azure/storage/storage-scalability-targets/).

### Scalability targets for virtual machine disks

An Azure infrastructure as a service (IaaS) VM supports attaching a number of data disks, depending on several factors, including the VM size and the type of storage account. If your application exceeds the scalability targets for virtual machine disks, provision additional storage accounts and create the virtual machine disks there. For more information, see [Scalability and performance targets for VM disks on Windows](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/disk-scalability-targets).

### VM size

If the actual CPU, memory, disk, and I/O of your VMs approach the limits of the VM size, your application may experience capacity issues. To correct the issues, increase the VM size. VM sizes are described in [Sizes for virtual machines in Azure](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-sizes/?toc=%2fazure%2fvirtual-machines%2fwindows%2ftoc.json).

If your workload fluctuates over time, consider using virtual machine scale sets to automatically scale the number of VM instances. Otherwise, you need to manually increase or decrease the number of VMs. For more information, see the [virtual machine scale sets overview](/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets/virtual-machine-scale-sets-overview/).

### Azure SQL Database

If your Azure SQL Database tier isn't adequate to handle your application's Database Transaction Unit (DTU) requirements, your data use will be throttled. For more information on selecting the correct service plan, see [Azure SQL Database purchasing models](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-service-tiers/).