---
title: "Fusion: Azure Virtual Datacenter - Monitoring and Reporting" 
description: Discusses how monitoring and reporting are used to maximize policy compliance of workloads and resources host in an Azure Virtual Datacenter
author: rotycenh
ms.date: 12/26/2018
---
# Fusion: Azure Virtual Datacenter - Monitoring and reporting

Jump to: [Log data](#log-data) | [Azure Monitor](#azure-monitor) | [Azure Active Directory Reports](#azure-active-directory-reports) | [Azure Security Center](#azure-security-center) | [Azure Network Watcher](#azure-network-watcher)

Governance and control of workloads is based on more than just collecting log data, but also the ability to trigger actions based on specific reported events. Within the [Azure Virtual Datacenter model](../virtual-datacenter/overview.md), monitoring and reporting capabilities are an important component central IT teams use to ensure assets hosted in the virtual datacenter are in compliance with operational and security policy requirements.

The Azure Virtual Datacenter model uses cloud-based services such as Azure Monitor for monitoring and reporting of Azure-hosted resource activity. As part of any migration planning, you will need to consider how to integrate these services with your existing on-premises monitoring and reporting capability using a hybrid approach.

## Log data

There are two critical types of [log data](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security/azure-log-audit) involved in monitoring virtual datacenter (VDC) assets:

- Azure activity logs provide insight into the operations that were performed on resources in your subscription. Activity logs are also known as “audit logs” or “operational logs” because they report control-plane events for your subscriptions.
- Azure Diagnostic Logs are logs generated by a deployed resource. They provide rich, frequent data about the operation of that resource. The content of these logs varies by resource type.

For tracking access control and network security in a VDC, it is critical to track your VDC's [Network Security Group (NSG) diagnostic logs](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-network/virtual-network-nsg-manage-log).

## Azure Monitor

The Azure Virtual Datacenter model assumes the use of [Azure Monitor](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/azure-monitor/overview) as the primary monitoring and reporting service for the VDC. Azure Monitor enables performance metrics and diagnostic logging on most Azure features and services. Many resources used in a VDC are automatically integrated within Azure Monitor, including SQL Database instances, NSGs, and data stored using Azure Storage.

Azure Monitor allows custom alert rules that can notify admins on security or performance issues, or even trigger specific actions automatically. Azure Monitor provides detailed activity and audit logs for all management operations on Azure resources, such as creating or deleting resources.

The Azure portal displays relevant logs and information generated by Azure Monitor. In addition, Azure Monitor can also pull in and provide visibility to diagnostic logs generated from other Azure services, disclosing this information within the portal and providing analytics and search capabilities to help interpret data.

The process for integrating your VDC's Azure Monitor data with your existing on-premises monitoring and reporting services differs for every organization. However, Azure Monitor [provides integration](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/monitoring-and-diagnostics/monitoring-partners) with many popular DevOps, issue management, IT service management (ITSM), and security information and event management (SIEM) tools. You can also build your own custom integration using [Azure Monitor REST APIs](#https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/monitoring-and-diagnostics/monitoring-rest-api-walkthrough) and [webhooks](#https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/monitoring-and-diagnostics/insights-webhooks-alerts).

## Azure Active Directory Reports

Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) is a core pillar that the Azure Virtual Datacenter model depends on for securing resources. [Azure Active Directory Reports](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/overview-reports) is a feature of Azure AD that provides a variety of reports to help monitor and diagnose security issues for any resources hosted within a VDC. These reports include:

- Anomaly reports: Shows sign-on events that were found to be anomalous, alerting admins to potentially suspicious activity.
- Integrated Application reports – Contains information on how cloud applications are being used. 
- Error reports: Lists authentication or other AD related errors.
- User-specific reports: Displays device/sign-on activity data for specific users, including administrators and technical users.
- Activity logs: Contains a record of all audited events, as well as group activity changes, password resets, and registration activity. 

## Azure Security Center

[Azure Security Center (ASC)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/security-center/) is the primary service used to detect security threats or breaches within a VDC. The ASC helps you detect, prevent, and respond to threats to VDC-hosted resources, and provides security monitoring and centralized policy management across any Azure subscriptions used in your VDC.

You should define security policies for resources within a specified subscription or resource group. Then, ASC alerts the appropriate security teams of any violation of those policies, along with remediation recommendations.

ASC collects, analyzes, and fuses log data from compute services, network resources, and partner solutions, such as firewall network virtual appliances (NVAs). The ASC uses this information to provide security recommendations and raise security alerts if vulnerabilities are detected. ASC also leverages the [Microsoft Digital Crimes Unit (DCU)](https://news.microsoft.com/presskits/dcu/), the [Microsoft Security Response Center (MSRC)](https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/msrc), and other external resources to stop attacks and prevent future attacks.

## Azure Network Watcher

[Azure Network Watcher (NW)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/network-watcher/) is an Azure monitoring service that you can use to monitor, diagnose, and gain insights to your VDC's network performance and health. It provides the following features:

- Topology View: Visualization of network topologies and identification of unhealthy connections and resources
- Diagnostics: Connectivity, latency, DNS check, trace route, IP flow verification, security group views, next hop, and packet capture
- Performance and Health: Flow analysis, security analysis, bandwidth usage, protocol analyzer, and network subscription limits
- Logs: Configuration and views of all network logs and alerts

## Next steps

Return to the [Overview page](../virtual-datacenter/overview.md) to learn more about the Azure Virtual Datacenter model and explore guidance and tools to help support your VDC deployments.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Azure Virtual Datacenter: Overview](../virtual-datacenter/overview.md)
