---
title: "Fusion: Core Infrastructure overview"
description: Overview of Core infrastructure content for Azure Fusion
author: rotycenh
ms.date: 12/11/2018
---

# Fusion: Core infrastructure overview

The first critical step in making architectural decisions for your cloud migration 
is understanding how cloud platforms work. The next step is determining how to bring a new 
cloud platform into your existing architecture so that it is in compliance with your 
organization's overall governance policies. Lastly, you need to learn the best way 
to deploy, organize, and manage ongoing, innovative cloud-based solutions into your 
existing architecture. 

This section provides a summary of the most important technologies and models 
used in designing and building cloud-based solutions, as well as providing concrete 
examples and guidance for building solutions, specifically those that use the Azure 
public cloud platform.

## Core infrastructure components

Each of the following components represents a key foundational technology underlying 
all cloud deployments. It's important to learn how these components work and 
understand which features and deployment models are appropriate for your organization's
needs.

[Subscriptions](subscriptions/overview.md):
Plan your your cloud deployment's subscription design and account structure to match your organization's 
ownership, billing, and management capabilities.

[Identity](identity/overview.md):
Integrate cloud-based identity services with your existing identity resources to support access 
control within your IT environment. 

[Policy Enforcement](policy-enforcement/overview.md):
Define and enforce organizational policy rules for resources and workloads that you deploy to the cloud.

[Resource Grouping](resource-grouping/overview.md):
Ensure that deployment and organization of your organization's cloud-based resources align to enforce 
resource management and policy requirements.

[Resource Tagging](resource-tagging/overview.md):
Organize your cloud-based resources to support management, access control, and operational 
efficiency. Resource tagging requires a consistent and well-organized naming and metadata scheme.

[Software Defined Networks](software-defined-networks/overview.md):
Deploy secure workloads to the cloud using rapid deployment and modification of virtualized 
networking capabilities. Software defined networks (SDNs) support agile workflows, are capable of 
isolating resources, and can integrate cloud-based systems with your existing IT infrastructure.

[Encryption](encryption/overview.md):
Secure your sensitive data using encryption, which is an important aspect of security within 
a cloud deployment.

[Logs and Reporting](logs-and-reporting/overview.md):
Monitor log data generated by cloud-based resources. Analyzing data provides health-related insights 
into the operations, maintenance, and policy enforcement status of workloads.

## Azure examples and guidance

In addition to understanding how cloud platforms work in a general way, planning
a migration to Azure requires learning how core infrastructure components are organized. 

You can use these components to build solutions on the Azure platform and design your deployments
to best meet your organization's goals. 

These topics provide details about each of the infrastructure components:

[Deploy a basic
workload](virtual-machines/basic-workload.md):
This section provides an overview of the process of deploying a simple workload to Azure. 
It also includes links to more detailed guidance for deploying more complex workloads.

[Can a mainframe be migrated to
Azure?](mainframe-migration/overview.md):
This section guides you through the process of migrating a mainframe solution to the Azure platform.

[How To: Create Hybrid Cloud
Consistency](misc/hybrid-consistency.md):
A hybrid cloud solution enables access to cloud-based resources, while maintaining on-premises 
services in your pre-existing IT environment. This section provides guidance on 
establishing consistent hybrid identity, and security, management, and operations standards.

[How To: Build a Virtual
Datacenter](virtual-datacenter/overview.md):
Building upon ideas of cloud consistency, Azure Virtual Datacenter (VDC) is an
approach to help IT balance governance and developer agility while 
deploying enterprise cloud-based workloads. This section provides guidance and examples on 
how to build a VDC using the Azure platform.

## Next steps

Learn how [subscriptions and accounts](subscriptions/overview.md) serve as the base of a cloud deployment.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Subscriptions](subscriptions/overview.md)

