- *Design network topology.* Choose the right network topology for your web and networking requirements. A [hub and spoke network topology](/azure/cloud-adoption-framework/ready/azure-best-practices/hub-spoke-network-topology) is standard configuration in Azure. It provides cost, management, and security benefits with hybrid connectivity options to on-premises networks.

- *Design for availability.* Determine how many availability zones and regions you need to meet your availability needs. Define a target SLO for your web app, such as 99.9% uptime. Then, calculate the [composite SLA](/azure/well-architected/reliability/metrics#slos-and-slas) for all the services that affect the availability of your web app. Add availability zones and regions until the composite SLA meets your SLO.

- *Design for resiliency.* Design your infrastructure to support your [recovery metrics](/azure/well-architected/reliability/metrics#recovery-metrics), such as recovery time objective (RTO) and recovery point objective (RPO). The RTO affects availability and must support your SLO. Determine an recovery point objective (RPO) and configure [data redundancy](/azure/well-architected/reliability/redundancy#data-resources) to meet the RPO.

- *Configure private endpoints.* Use [private endpoints](/azure/architecture/framework/security/design-network-endpoints) in all production environments for all supported Azure services. Private endpoints help secure access to PaaS services and don't require any code changes, app configurations, or connection strings.

- *Use a web application firewall.* Force all inbound internet traffic to through a web application firewall to protect against common web exploits.