docs/databricks-monitoring/application-logs.md, before:

---
title: Send Databricks app logs to Azure Monitor
description: Learn how to send application logs and metrics from Azure Databricks to a Log Analytics workspace using the Azure Databricks Monitoring Library.
author: martinekuan
categories: azure
ms.author: architectures
ms.date: 07/25/2022
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: azure-guide
azureCategories:
  - databases
  - developer-tools
  - management-and-governance
  - featured
products:
  - azure-databricks
  - azure-monitor
---

<!-- cSpell:ignore Dropwizard loganalytics samplejob appender jconfiguration kusto rowcounter -->

# Send Azure Databricks application logs to Azure Monitor

> [!NOTE]
> This article relies on an open source library hosted on GitHub at: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring. The library supports Azure Databricks 10.x (Spark 3.2.x) and earlier. Azure Databricks 11.0 includes [breaking changes](/azure/databricks/release-notes/runtime/11.0#log4j-is-upgraded-from-log4j-1-to-log4j-2) to the logging systems that the **spark-monitoring** library integrates with. The work required to update the **spark-monitoring** library to support Azure Databricks 11.0 (Spark 3.3.0) and newer is not currently planned.

This article shows how to send application logs and metrics from Azure Databricks to a [Log Analytics workspace](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/manage-access). It uses the [Azure Databricks Monitoring Library](https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring), which is available on GitHub.

## Prerequisites

Configure your Azure Databricks cluster to use the monitoring library, as described in the [GitHub readme][config-cluster].

> [!NOTE]
> The monitoring library streams Apache Spark level events and Spark Structured Streaming metrics from your jobs to Azure Monitor. You don't need to make any changes to your application code for these events and metrics.

## Send application metrics using Dropwizard

Spark uses a configurable metrics system based on the Dropwizard Metrics Library. For more information, see [Metrics](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/monitoring.html#metrics) in the Spark documentation.

To send application metrics from Azure Databricks application code to Azure Monitor, follow these steps:

1. Build the **spark-listeners-loganalytics-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar** JAR file as described in the [GitHub readme][config-cluster].

1. Create Dropwizard [gauges or counters](https://metrics.dropwizard.io/4.0.0/manual/core.html) in your application code. You can use the `UserMetricsSystem` class defined in the monitoring library. The following example creates a counter named `counter1`.

    ```scala
    import org.apache.spark.metrics.UserMetricsSystems
    import org.apache.spark.sql.SparkSession

    object StreamingQueryListenerSampleJob  {

      private final val METRICS_NAMESPACE = "samplejob"
      private final val COUNTER_NAME = "counter1"

      def main(args: Array[String]): Unit = {

        val spark = SparkSession
          .builder
          .getOrCreate

        val driverMetricsSystem = UserMetricsSystems
            .getMetricSystem(METRICS_NAMESPACE, builder => {
              builder.registerCounter(COUNTER_NAME)
            })

        driverMetricsSystem.counter(COUNTER_NAME).inc(5)
      }
    }
    ```

    The monitoring library includes a [sample application][sample-app] that demonstrates how to use the `UserMetricsSystem` class.

## Send application logs using Log4j

To send your Azure Databricks application logs to Azure Log Analytics using the [Log4j appender](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/appenders.html) in the library, follow these steps:

1. Build the **spark-listeners-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar** and the **spark-listeners-loganalytics-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar** JAR file as described in the [GitHub readme][config-cluster].

1. Create a **log4j.properties** [configuration file](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/configuration.html) for your application. Include the following configuration properties. Substitute your application package name and log level where indicated:

    ```yaml
    log4j.appender.A1=com.microsoft.pnp.logging.loganalytics.LogAnalyticsAppender
    log4j.appender.A1.layout=com.microsoft.pnp.logging.JSONLayout
    log4j.appender.A1.layout.LocationInfo=false
    log4j.additivity.<your application package name>=false
    log4j.logger.<your application package name>=<log level>, A1
    ```

    You can find a sample configuration file [here][log4j.properties].

1. In your application code, include the **spark-listeners-loganalytics** project, and import `com.microsoft.pnp.logging.Log4jconfiguration` to your application code.

    ```scala
    import com.microsoft.pnp.logging.Log4jConfiguration
    ```

1. Configure Log4j using the **log4j.properties** file you created in step 3:

    ```scala
    getClass.getResourceAsStream("<path to file in your JAR file>/log4j.properties") {
          stream => {
            Log4jConfiguration.configure(stream)
          }
    }
    ```

1. Add Apache Spark log messages at the appropriate level in your code as required. For example, use the `logDebug` method to send a debug log message. For more information, see [Logging][spark-logging] in the Spark documentation.

    ```scala
    logTrace("Trace message")
    logDebug("Debug message")
    logInfo("Info message")
    logWarning("Warning message")
    logError("Error message")
    ```

> [!NOTE]
> If you're using the library and you have Apache Spark Notebooks, any logs that Spark generates during execution for the notebook automatically go to Log Analytics.
>
> There is a limitation for Python to support custom logging messages using the Spark configured Log4j. Logs can only be sent from the driver node because executor nodes don't have access to the Java Virtual Machine from Python.

## Run the sample application

The monitoring library includes a [sample application][sample-app] that demonstrates how to send both application metrics and application logs to Azure Monitor. To run the sample:

1. Build the **spark-jobs** project in the monitoring library, as described in the [GitHub readme][config-cluster].

1. Navigate to your Databricks workspace and create a new job, as described [here](/azure/databricks/jobs#create-a-job).

1. In the job detail page, select **Set JAR**.

1. Upload the JAR file from `/src/spark-jobs/target/spark-jobs-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar`.

1. For **Main class**, enter `com.microsoft.pnp.samplejob.StreamingQueryListenerSampleJob`.

1. Select a cluster that is already configured to use the monitoring library. See [Configure Azure Databricks to send metrics to Azure Monitor][config-cluster].

When the job runs, you can view the application logs and metrics in your Log Analytics workspace.

Application logs appear under SparkLoggingEvent_CL:

```kusto
SparkLoggingEvent_CL | where logger_name_s contains "com.microsoft.pnp"
```

Application metrics appear under SparkMetric_CL:

```kusto
SparkMetric_CL | where name_s contains "rowcounter" | limit 50
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> After you verify the metrics appear, stop the sample application job.

## Next steps

Deploy the performance monitoring dashboard that accompanies this code library to troubleshoot performance issues in your production Azure Databricks workloads.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Use dashboards to visualize Azure Databricks metrics](./dashboards.md)

## Related resources

- [Monitoring Azure Databricks](index.md)
- [Troubleshoot performance bottlenecks in Azure Databricks](performance-troubleshooting.md)
- [Modern analytics architecture with Azure Databricks](../solution-ideas/articles/azure-databricks-modern-analytics-architecture.yml)
- [Ingestion, ETL, and stream processing pipelines with Azure Databricks](../solution-ideas/articles/ingest-etl-stream-with-adb.yml)

<!-- links -->

[config-cluster]: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring/blob/master/README.md
[log4j.properties]: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring/blob/master/sample/spark-sample-job/src/main/resources/com/microsoft/pnp/samplejob/log4j.properties
[sample-app]: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring/tree/master/sample/spark-sample-job
[spark-logging]: https://spark.apache.org/docs/2.3.0/api/java/org/apache/spark/internal/Logging.html

Commit message:

Update spark-monitoring notes to include language from Databricks, link to ADB 11+ version

docs/databricks-monitoring/application-logs.md, after:

---
title: Send Databricks app logs to Azure Monitor
description: Learn how to send application logs and metrics from Azure Databricks to a Log Analytics workspace using the Azure Databricks Monitoring Library.
author: martinekuan
categories: azure
ms.author: architectures
ms.date: 07/25/2022
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: azure-guide
azureCategories:
  - databases
  - developer-tools
  - management-and-governance
  - featured
products:
  - azure-databricks
  - azure-monitor
---

<!-- cSpell:ignore Dropwizard loganalytics samplejob appender jconfiguration kusto rowcounter -->

# Send Azure Databricks application logs to Azure Monitor

> [!NOTE]
> This article relies on an open source library hosted on GitHub at: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring. The original library supports Azure Databricks Runtimes 10.x (Spark 3.2.x) and earlier. Databricks has contributed an updated version to support Azure Databricks Runtimes 11.0 (Spark 3.3.x) and above: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring/tree/l4jv2. Please note the 11.0 release is not backwards compatible due to the different logging systems used in the Databricks Runtimes. Be sure to use the correct build for your Databricks Runtime. This library and Github repository are in maintenance mode. There are no plans for further releases, and issue support will be best-effort only. For any additional questions regarding this library or the roadmap for monitoring and logging of your Azure Databricks environments, please contact azure-spark-monitoring-help@databricks.com.

This article shows how to send application logs and metrics from Azure Databricks to a [Log Analytics workspace](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/manage-access). It uses the [Azure Databricks Monitoring Library](https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring), which is available on GitHub.

## Prerequisites

Configure your Azure Databricks cluster to use the monitoring library, as described in the [GitHub readme][config-cluster].

> [!NOTE]
> The monitoring library streams Apache Spark level events and Spark Structured Streaming metrics from your jobs to Azure Monitor. You don't need to make any changes to your application code for these events and metrics.

## Send application metrics using Dropwizard

Spark uses a configurable metrics system based on the Dropwizard Metrics Library. For more information, see [Metrics](https://spark.apache.org/docs/latest/monitoring.html#metrics) in the Spark documentation.

To send application metrics from Azure Databricks application code to Azure Monitor, follow these steps:

1. Build the **spark-listeners-loganalytics-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar** JAR file as described in the [GitHub readme][config-cluster].

1. Create Dropwizard [gauges or counters](https://metrics.dropwizard.io/4.0.0/manual/core.html) in your application code. You can use the `UserMetricsSystem` class defined in the monitoring library. The following example creates a counter named `counter1`.

    ```scala
    import org.apache.spark.metrics.UserMetricsSystems
    import org.apache.spark.sql.SparkSession

    object StreamingQueryListenerSampleJob  {

      private final val METRICS_NAMESPACE = "samplejob"
      private final val COUNTER_NAME = "counter1"

      def main(args: Array[String]): Unit = {

        val spark = SparkSession
          .builder
          .getOrCreate

        val driverMetricsSystem = UserMetricsSystems
            .getMetricSystem(METRICS_NAMESPACE, builder => {
              builder.registerCounter(COUNTER_NAME)
            })

        driverMetricsSystem.counter(COUNTER_NAME).inc(5)
      }
    }
    ```

    The monitoring library includes a [sample application][sample-app] that demonstrates how to use the `UserMetricsSystem` class.

## Send application logs using Log4j

To send your Azure Databricks application logs to Azure Log Analytics using the [Log4j appender](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/appenders.html) in the library, follow these steps:

1. Build the **spark-listeners-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar** and the **spark-listeners-loganalytics-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar** JAR file as described in the [GitHub readme][config-cluster].

1. Create a **log4j.properties** [configuration file](https://logging.apache.org/log4j/2.x/manual/configuration.html) for your application. Include the following configuration properties. Substitute your application package name and log level where indicated:

    ```yaml
    log4j.appender.A1=com.microsoft.pnp.logging.loganalytics.LogAnalyticsAppender
    log4j.appender.A1.layout=com.microsoft.pnp.logging.JSONLayout
    log4j.appender.A1.layout.LocationInfo=false
    log4j.additivity.<your application package name>=false
    log4j.logger.<your application package name>=<log level>, A1
    ```

    You can find a sample configuration file [here][log4j.properties].

1. In your application code, include the **spark-listeners-loganalytics** project, and import `com.microsoft.pnp.logging.Log4jconfiguration` to your application code.

    ```scala
    import com.microsoft.pnp.logging.Log4jConfiguration
    ```

1. Configure Log4j using the **log4j.properties** file you created in step 3:

    ```scala
    getClass.getResourceAsStream("<path to file in your JAR file>/log4j.properties") {
          stream => {
            Log4jConfiguration.configure(stream)
          }
    }
    ```

1. Add Apache Spark log messages at the appropriate level in your code as required. For example, use the `logDebug` method to send a debug log message. For more information, see [Logging][spark-logging] in the Spark documentation.

    ```scala
    logTrace("Trace message")
    logDebug("Debug message")
    logInfo("Info message")
    logWarning("Warning message")
    logError("Error message")
    ```

> [!NOTE]
> If you're using the library and you have Apache Spark Notebooks, any logs that Spark generates during execution for the notebook automatically go to Log Analytics.
>
> There is a limitation for Python to support custom logging messages using the Spark configured Log4j. Logs can only be sent from the driver node because executor nodes don't have access to the Java Virtual Machine from Python.

## Run the sample application

The monitoring library includes a [sample application][sample-app] that demonstrates how to send both application metrics and application logs to Azure Monitor. To run the sample:

1. Build the **spark-jobs** project in the monitoring library, as described in the [GitHub readme][config-cluster].

1. Navigate to your Databricks workspace and create a new job, as described [here](/azure/databricks/jobs#create-a-job).

1. In the job detail page, select **Set JAR**.

1. Upload the JAR file from `/src/spark-jobs/target/spark-jobs-1.0-SNAPSHOT.jar`.

1. For **Main class**, enter `com.microsoft.pnp.samplejob.StreamingQueryListenerSampleJob`.

1. Select a cluster that is already configured to use the monitoring library. See [Configure Azure Databricks to send metrics to Azure Monitor][config-cluster].

When the job runs, you can view the application logs and metrics in your Log Analytics workspace.

Application logs appear under SparkLoggingEvent_CL:

```kusto
SparkLoggingEvent_CL | where logger_name_s contains "com.microsoft.pnp"
```

Application metrics appear under SparkMetric_CL:

```kusto
SparkMetric_CL | where name_s contains "rowcounter" | limit 50
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> After you verify the metrics appear, stop the sample application job.

## Next steps

Deploy the performance monitoring dashboard that accompanies this code library to troubleshoot performance issues in your production Azure Databricks workloads.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Use dashboards to visualize Azure Databricks metrics](./dashboards.md)

## Related resources

- [Monitoring Azure Databricks](index.md)
- [Troubleshoot performance bottlenecks in Azure Databricks](performance-troubleshooting.md)
- [Modern analytics architecture with Azure Databricks](../solution-ideas/articles/azure-databricks-modern-analytics-architecture.yml)
- [Ingestion, ETL, and stream processing pipelines with Azure Databricks](../solution-ideas/articles/ingest-etl-stream-with-adb.yml)

<!-- links -->

[config-cluster]: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring/blob/master/README.md
[log4j.properties]: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring/blob/master/sample/spark-sample-job/src/main/resources/com/microsoft/pnp/samplejob/log4j.properties
[sample-app]: https://github.com/mspnp/spark-monitoring/tree/master/sample/spark-sample-job
[spark-logging]: https://spark.apache.org/docs/2.3.0/api/java/org/apache/spark/internal/Logging.html
