---
title: "Set up basic alerts"
titleSuffix: Microsoft Cloud Adoption Framework for Azure
description: Set up basic alerts
author: BrianBlanchard
ms.author: brblanch
ms.date: 05/10/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: enterprise-cloud-adoption
---

# Set up basic alerts

A key part of managing resources is being notified when issues occur. Alerts proactively notify you of critical conditions, and can be based on triggers from metrics, logs, or service health issues. As part of onboarding the Azure server management services, you'll want to set up alerts and notifications than can help keep you IT teams aware of any issues.

## Azure Monitor alerts

Azure Monitor offers [alerting](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alerts-overview) capabilities to notify you via email or messaging when things go wrong. These capabilities are based on a common monitoring data platform that includes Logs and Metrics generated by your servers and other resources. Collecting data into this platform allows data from multiple resources to be analyzed together using a common set of tools in Azure Monitor, which you you can use to trigger alerts. These triggers can include but are not limited to:

- Metric values
- Log search queries
- Activity Log events
- Health of the underlying Azure platform
- Tests for web site availability

See the [list of Azure Monitor data sources](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/platform/data-sources) for a more detailed description of the different sources of monitoring data collected by this service.

For details on manually creating and managing alerts using the portal, see the [Azure Monitor documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/azure-monitor/platform/alerts-metric).

## Automated deployment of recommended alerts

In this guide, we recommend you enable a set of 15 alerts for basic infrastructure monitoring. You can find the deployment scripts in the [Azure Alert toolkit GitHub repository](https://github.com/Microsoft/manageability-toolkits).

This package creates alerts for low disk space, low available memory, high CPU utilization, unexpected shutdowns, corrupted file systems, and common hardware failures. This package uses HP server hardware as an example. You should change settings in the associated configuration file to reflect your OEM hardware. You can also modify the configuration file to add additional performance counters. To deploy the package, run the `New-CoreAlerts.ps1` file.

## Next steps

Learn about operations and security mechanisms that support your ongoing operations.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Ongoing management and security](./ongoing-management-overview.md)
