---
title: Architecting for resiliency and availability
description: Learn how to build resiliency and availability into your Azure application by starting at the design stage and building key elements into your architecture.
author: martinekuan
ms.author: martinek
ms.date: 07/28/2022
ms.topic: conceptual
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: well-architected
ms.custom:
  - article
products:
  - azure
categories:
  - management-and-governance
---

<!-- cSpell:ignore BACPAC DTUs architecting -->

# Architect Azure applications for resiliency and availability

After you've developed the requirements for your application, the next step is to build resiliency and availability into it. These qualities can't be added at the end—you must design them into the architecture.

## Plan for redundancy

Failures vary in scope of impact. Some hardware failures, such as a failed disk, affect a single host machine. A failed network switch, however, could affect an entire server rack. Less common failures, such as loss of power, disrupt a whole datacenter. Rarely an entire region becomes unavailable.

Redundancy is one way to make an application resilient. The level of redundancy depends on your business requirements—not every application needs redundancy across regions to guard against a regional outage. Generally, there's a tradeoff between greater redundancy and reliability versus lower costs and less complexity.

### Review Azure redundancy features

Azure has many redundancy features at every level of failure, from an individual virtual machine (VM) to an entire region.

- **Single VMs** have an [uptime service level agreement (SLA)](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/sla/virtual-machines) provided by Azure. (The VM must use premium storage for all operating system disks and data disks.) Although you can get a higher SLA by running two or more VMs, a single VM might be reliable enough for some workloads. For production workloads, however, we recommend using two or more VMs for redundancy.
- **Availability sets** protect against localized hardware failures, such as a disk or network switch failing. VMs in an availability set are distributed across up to three *fault domains*. A fault domain defines a group of VMs that share a common power source and network switch. If a hardware failure affects one fault domain, network traffic is routed to VMs in the other fault domains. For more information about availability sets, see [Manage the availability of Windows virtual machines in Azure](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/manage-availability).
- **Availability Zones** are physically separate zones within an Azure region. Each Availability Zone has a distinct power source, network, and cooling. Deploying VMs across Availability Zones helps to protect an application against datacenter-wide failures. Not all regions support Availability Zones. For a list of supported regions and services, see [What are Availability Zones in Azure?](/azure/availability-zones/az-overview).

    If you plan to use Availability Zones in your deployment, first validate that your application architecture and codebase support this configuration. If you deploy commercial software, consult with the software vendor and test adequately before deploying into production. An application must maintain state and prevent loss of data during an outage within the configured zone. The application must support running in an elastic and distributed infrastructure with no hard-coded infrastructure components.
- **Azure Site Recovery** replicates Azure Virtual Machines to another Azure region for business continuity (BC) and disaster recovery (DR) needs. You can conduct periodic DR drills to ensure that you meet the compliance needs. The VM is replicated with the specified settings to the selected region so you can recover your applications in the event of outages in the source region. For more information, see [Set up disaster recovery to a secondary Azure region for an Azure VM](/azure/site-recovery/azure-to-azure-quickstart).

    During testing, verify that the *recovery time objective* (RTO) and *recovery point objective* (RPO) meet your needs. RTO is the maximum time an application is unavailable after an incident, and RPO is the maximum duration of data loss during a disaster.
- **Paired regions** are created using Azure Traffic Manager to distribute Internet traffic to different regions, protecting an application against a regional outage. Each Azure region is paired with another region. Together, these regions form a [*regional pair*](/azure/best-practices-availability-paired-regions). To meet data residency requirements for tax and law enforcement jurisdiction purposes, regional pairs are located within the same geography (except for Brazil South).

    To improve application resiliency, Azure serializes platform updates (planned maintenance) across each region pair, so only one paired region is updated at a time.
- When you design a multiregion application, take into account that network latency across regions is higher than within a region. For example, if you replicate a database to enable failover, use synchronous data replication within a region but asynchronous data replication across regions.

The following table compares the redundancy factors across several resiliency strategies:

| &nbsp; | Availability set | Availability Zone | Azure Site Recovery/Paired region |
|--------|------------------|-------------------|-----------------------------------|
| Scope of failure | Rack                  | Datacenter               | Region                               |
| Request routing  | Azure Load Balancer   | Cross-zone Load Balancer | Azure Traffic Manager                |
| Network latency  | Very low              | Low                      | Mid to high                          |
| Virtual network  | Azure Virtual Network | Azure Virtual Network          | Cross-region Virtual Network peering |

### Complete Azure redundancy tasks

Use the following tasks to meet redundancy requirements:

- **Deploy multiple instances of services.** If your application depends on a single instance of a service, it creates a single point of failure. Provisioning multiple instances improves both resiliency and scalability. For [Azure App Service](/azure/app-service/app-service-value-prop-what-is), select an [App Service plan](/azure/app-service/azure-web-sites-web-hosting-plans-in-depth-overview/) that offers multiple instances. For [Azure Virtual Machines](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/), ensure that your architecture has more than one VM and that each VM is included in an [availability set](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/manage-availability).

- **Replicate VMs using Azure Site Recovery.** When you replicate Azure VMs using [Site Recovery](/azure/site-recovery), all the VM disks are continuously replicated to the target region asynchronously. The recovery points are created every few minutes, giving an RPO on the order of minutes.

- **Consider deploying your application across multiple regions.** If your application is deployed to a single region, and the region becomes unavailable, your application will also be unavailable. This might be unacceptable under the terms of your application's SLA. If so, consider deploying your application and its services across multiple regions. A multiregion deployment can use an *active-active* or *active-passive* configuration. An active-active configuration distributes requests across multiple active regions. An active-passive configuration keeps warm instances in the secondary region, but doesn't send traffic there unless the primary region fails. For multiregion deployments, we recommend deploying to paired regions, described above. For more information, see [Business continuity and disaster recovery (BCDR): Azure Paired Regions](/azure/best-practices-availability-paired-regions).

- **Use Azure Traffic Manager to route your application's traffic to different regions.** [Azure Traffic Manager](/azure/traffic-manager/traffic-manager-overview) performs load-balancing at the DNS level and routes traffic to different regions based on the [traffic routing](/azure/traffic-manager/traffic-manager-routing-methods) method and the health of your application's endpoints. Without Traffic Manager, you're limited to a single region for your deployment, which constrains scale, increases latency for some users, and causes application downtime, in the case of a region-wide service disruption.

- **Configure Azure Application Gateway to use multiple instances.** Depending on your application's requirements, an [Azure Application Gateway](/azure/application-gateway/application-gateway-introduction) might be better suited to distributing requests to your application's services. However, single instances of the Application Gateway service aren't guaranteed by an SLA, so it's possible that your application could fail if the Application Gateway instance fails. Provision more than one medium or larger instance to guarantee availability of the service under the terms of the [Application Gateway SLA](https://azure.microsoft.com/support/legal/sla/application-gateway).

## Ensure that availability meets SLAs

*Availability* is the proportion of time that a system is functional and working, and it's one of the [pillars of software quality](/azure/architecture/framework). Use the tasks in this section to review your application architecture from an availability standpoint to make sure that your availability meets your SLAs.

- **Avoid any single point of failure.** All components, services, resources, and compute instances should be deployed as multiple instances to prevent a single point of failure from affecting availability. Authentication mechanisms can also be a single point of failure. Design the application to be configurable to use multiple instances and to automatically detect failures and redirect requests to non-failed instances, if the platform doesn't do this automatically.
- **Decompose workloads by service-level objective.** If a service is composed of critical and less-critical workloads, manage them differently and specify the service features and number of instances to meet their availability requirements.
- **Minimize and understand service dependencies.** Minimize the number of different services used, where possible. Ensure that you understand all the feature and service dependencies that exist in the system. In particular, understand the overall impact of failure or reduced performance in each dependency.
- **Design tasks and messages to be _idempotent_, where possible.** An operation is [idempotent](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Idempotence) if it can be repeated multiple times and produce the same result. This can ensure that duplicated requests don't cause problems. Message consumers and the operations they carry out should be idempotent so that repeating a previously executed operation doesn't render the results invalid. This might mean detecting duplicated messages or ensuring consistency by using an optimistic approach to handling conflicts. Keep in mind the challenges of consistently handling data with [idempotent message processing](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/containers/aks-mission-critical/mission-critical-data-platform#idempotent-message-processing).
- **Configure request timeouts.** Services and resources might become unavailable, causing requests to fail. Ensure that the timeouts you apply are appropriate for each service or resource and for the client that is accessing them. In some cases, you might allow a longer timeout for a particular instance of a client, depending on the context and other actions that the client is performing. Short timeouts might cause excessive retry operations for services and resources that have considerable latency. Long timeouts can cause blocking, if a large number of requests are queued, waiting for a service or resource to respond.
- **Use a message broker that implements high availability for critical transactions.** Many cloud applications use messaging to trigger asynchronous tasks. To guarantee delivery of messages, the messaging system should provide high availability. [Azure Service Bus messaging](/azure/service-bus-messaging) implements *at least once* semantics, which means that a message is guaranteed to be delivered at least once. Duplicate messages might be delivered under certain circumstances. If message processing is idempotent (see the previous item), repeated delivery shouldn't be a problem.
- **Throttle high-volume users.** Sometimes, a few users create excessive load. This can have an impact on other users and can reduce the overall availability of your application. When a single client makes an excessive number of requests, the application might throttle the client for a certain period. During the throttling period, the application refuses some or all of the requests from that client. The threshold for throttling often depends on the customer's service tier. For more information, see [Throttling pattern](../patterns/throttling.yml).

    Throttling doesn't imply that the client was necessarily acting maliciously—only that it exceeded its service quota. In some cases, a consumer might consistently exceed their quota or otherwise behave badly. In that case, you might go further and block the user. Typically, this is done by blocking an API key or an IP address range.
- **Design applications to gracefully degrade.** The load on an application might exceed the capacity of one or more parts, causing reduced availability and failed connections. Scaling can mitigate this problem, but it might reach a limit imposed by other factors, such as resource availability or cost. When an application reaches a resource limit, it should take appropriate action to minimize the impact for the user. For example, in an e-commerce system, if the order-processing subsystem is under strain or fails, it can be temporarily disabled while allowing other functionality, such as browsing the product catalog. It might be appropriate to postpone requests to a failing subsystem—for example, still enabling customers to submit orders but saving them for later processing, when the orders subsystem is available again.
- **Gracefully handle rapid burst events.** Most applications need to handle varying workloads over time. Autoscaling can help to handle the load, but it might take some time for additional instances to come online and handle requests. To prevent bursts of activity from overwhelming the application, design it to queue requests to the services it uses and to degrade gracefully when queues are near capacity. Ensure there's sufficient performance and capacity available under non-burst conditions to drain the queues and handle outstanding requests. For more information, see the [Queue-Based Load Leveling pattern](../patterns/queue-based-load-leveling.yml).
- **Compose or fail back to multiple components.** Design applications to use multiple instances without affecting operation and existing connections, where possible. To maximize availability, use multiple instances and distribute requests between them, and detect and avoid sending requests to failed instances.
- **Fail back to a different service or workflow.** For example, if writing to SQL Database fails, temporarily store data in Blob storage or Azure Cache for Redis. Provide a way to replay the writes to SQL Database when the service becomes available. In some cases, a failed operation might have an alternative action that allows the application to continue to work, even when a component or service fails. If possible, detect failures and redirect requests to other services while the primary service is offline.
- **Use load leveling to smooth out spikes in traffic.** Applications might experience sudden spikes in traffic, which can overwhelm services on the back end. If a back-end service can't respond to requests quickly enough, the pending requests might accumulate or the service might throttle the application. To avoid this, you can use a queue as a buffer. When there's a new work item, instead of calling the back-end service immediately, the application queues a work item to run asynchronously. The queue acts as a buffer that smooths out peaks in the load. For more information, see [Queue-Based Load Leveling pattern](../patterns/queue-based-load-leveling.yml).

## Manage your data

How you manage your data plays directly into the availability of your application. The tasks in this section can help you create a management plan to help ensure availability.

- **Replicate data and understand the replication methods for your application's data stores.** Replicating data is a general strategy for handling nontransient failures in a data store. Consider both the read and write paths. Depending on the storage technology, you might have multiple writable replicas or you might have a single writable replica and multiple read-only replicas. To maximize availability, replicas can be placed in multiple regions. However, this approach increases the latency when replicating the data. Typically, replicating across regions is done asynchronously, which implies an eventual consistency model and potential data loss if a replica fails.

  You can use [Azure Site Recovery](/azure/site-recovery/azure-to-azure-quickstart) to replicate Azure Virtual Machines from one region to another. Site Recovery replicates data continuously to the target region. When an outage occurs at your primary site, you fail over to a secondary location.

- **Ensure that no single user account has access to both production and backup data.** Your data backups are compromised if one single user account has permission to write to both production and backup sources. A malicious user could purposely delete all your data, and a regular user could accidentally delete it. Design your application to limit the permissions of each user account. Only grant write access to users who require it, and grant access to either production or backup, but not both.
- **Document and test your data store failover and failback process.** If a data store fails catastrophically, a human operator must follow a set of documented instructions to fail over to a new data store. If the documented steps have errors, an operator won't be able to successfully follow them and to fail over the resource. Regularly test the instruction steps to verify that an operator who follows the documentation can successfully fail over and fail back.
- **Back up your data and validate your data backups.** Regularly run a script to validate data integrity, schema, and queries to ensure that backup data is what you expect. Log and report any inconsistencies so the backup service can be repaired.
- **Use periodic backup and point-in-time restore.** Regularly and automatically back up data that isn't preserved elsewhere. Verify that you can reliably restore both the data and the application itself if failure occurs. Ensure that backups meet your RPO. Data replication isn't a backup feature, because human error or malicious operations can corrupt data across all the replicas. The backup process must be secure to protect the data in transit and in storage. Databases can usually be recovered to a previous point in time by using transaction logs. For more information, see [Data Management for Reliability](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/data-management).
- **Consider using a geo-redundant storage account.** Data stored in an Azure Storage account is always replicated locally. However, there are multiple replication strategies to choose from when a storage account is provisioned. To protect your application data against the rare case when an entire region becomes unavailable, select [Azure Read-Access Geo-Redundant Storage (RA-GRS)](/azure/storage/common/storage-designing-ha-apps-with-ragrs).

    > [!NOTE]
    > For VMs, do not rely on RA-GRS replication to restore the VM disks (VHD files). Instead, use [Azure Backup](/azure/backup).

- **Consider deploying reference data to multiple regions.** Reference data is read-only data that supports application functionality. It typically doesn't change often. Although restoring from backup is one way to handle region-wide service disruptions, the RTO is relatively long. When you deploy the application to a secondary region, some strategies can improve the RTO for reference data.

    Because reference data changes infrequently, you can improve the RTO by maintaining a permanent copy in the secondary region. This eliminates the time required to restore backups after a disaster. To meet the multiple-region disaster recovery requirements, you must deploy the application and the reference data together in multiple regions.

- **Use optimistic concurrency and eventual consistency.** Transactions that block access to resources through locking (*pessimistic concurrency*) can cause poor performance and reduce availability. These problems can become especially acute in distributed systems. In many cases, careful design and techniques, such as partitioning, can minimize the chances of conflicting updates occurring. If data is replicated or read from a separately updated store, the data will only be eventually consistent. But the advantages usually outweigh the impact on availability of using transactions to ensure immediate consistency.
- **Use active geo-replication for SQL Database to replicate changes to a secondary database.** Active geo-replication for SQL Database automatically replicates database changes to secondary databases in the same region or a different region. For more information, see [Creating and using active geo-replication](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-active-geo-replication).

  Alternatively, you can take a more manual approach by using the **DATABASE COPY** command to create a backup copy of the database with transactional consistency. You can also use the import/export service of Azure SQL Database, which supports exporting databases to BACPAC files (compressed files containing your database schema and associated data) that are stored in Azure Blob storage. Azure Storage creates two replicas of the backup file in the same region. However, the frequency of the backup process determines your RPO, which is the amount of data you might lose in disaster scenarios. For example, if you back up data every hour, and a disaster occurs two minutes before the backup, you'll lose 58 minutes of data. Also, to protect against a region-wide service disruption, you should copy the BACPAC files to an alternate region. For more information, see [Overview of business continuity with Azure SQL Database](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-business-continuity).

- **Use geo-backups for Azure Synapse Analytics.** For Azure Synapse, use [geo-backups](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/backup-and-restore) to restore to a paired region for disaster recovery. These backups are taken every 24 hours and can be restored to the paired region. This feature is on by default for all Azure Synapse instances. For more information on how to restore your data warehouse, see [Restore from an Azure geographical region using PowerShell.](/azure/sql-data-warehouse/sql-data-warehouse-restore)

- **Replicate VM disks using Azure Site Recovery.** When you replicate Azure VMs using [Site Recovery](/azure/site-recovery), all the VM disks are continuously replicated to the target region asynchronously. The recovery points are created every few minutes. This gives you an RPO on the order of minutes.
- **Back up SQL Server running on VMs or configure a log-shipping session.** For SQL Server running on VMs, there are two options: traditional backups and log shipping. Traditional backups enable you to restore to a specific point in time, but the recovery process is slow. Restoring traditional backups requires that you start with an initial full backup and then apply any backups taken after that. The second option is to configure a log-shipping session to delay the restore of log backups (for example, by two hours). This provides a window to recover from errors made on the primary.
- **Use a custom process or third-party tool for Azure Storage backup.** For Azure Storage, you can develop a custom backup process or use a third-party backup tool. Most application designs have additional complexities, in which storage resources reference each other. For example, consider a SQL database with a column that links to a blob in Azure Storage. If the backups don't happen simultaneously, the database might have a pointer to a blob that wasn't backed up before the failure. The application or disaster recovery plan must implement processes to handle this inconsistency after a recovery.
- **Use the native replication or snapshot capabilities for other data platforms hosted on VMs.** Other data platforms, such as Elasticsearch or MongoDB, have their own capabilities and considerations when creating an integrated backup and restore process. For these data platforms, the general recommendation is to use any native or available integration-based replication or snapshot capabilities. If those capabilities don't exist or aren't suitable, consider using Azure Backup or disk snapshots to create a point-in-time copy of application data. In all cases, it's important to determine how to achieve consistent backups, especially when application data spans multiple files systems or multiple drives are combined into a single file system.
- **Understand the replication methods for your application's data sources.** Your application data will be stored in different data sources and will have varied availability requirements. Evaluate the replication methods for each type of data storage in Azure, including [Azure Storage redundancy](/azure/storage/storage-redundancy) and [SQL Database active geo-replication](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-geo-replication-overview) to ensure that your application's data requirements are satisfied. If you replicate Azure VMs using [Site Recovery](/azure/site-recovery), all the VM disks are continuously replicated to the target region asynchronously. The recovery points are created every few minutes.
- **Establish data strategies for disaster recovery.** Proper data handling is a challenging aspect of any disaster recovery plan. During the recovery process, data restoration typically takes the most time. Different choices for reducing functionality result in difficult challenges for data recovery and consistency.

## Next steps

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [Test for resiliency and availability](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/testing)
