Intelligent applications that use Azure OpenAI services through platform-native Azure deployments offer a seamless user authentication and authorization approach for developers. However, edge case scenarios present unique complexities that require additional architecture designs. Scenarios include topologies such as non-Azure hosted applications, the use of external identity providers, or deploying multiple clients accessing the same Azure OpenAI instances. In these scenarios, introducing a gateway in front of Azure OpenAI can provide significant improvement with a layer of security that ensures consistency in authentication to deployed instances.

This article explores the following key scenarios when authenticating with Azure OpenAI services.

- [Client applications authenticated with an external identity provider](#client-applications-authenticated-with-an-external-identity-provider)
- [Client applications authenticated with certificates](#client-applications-authenticated-with-certificates)
- [Multiple client applications accessing a shared Azure OpenAI instance](#multiple-client-applications-accessing-a-shared-azure-openai-instance)
- [Client applications accessing multiple Azure OpenAI instances](#client-applications-accessing-multiple-azure-openai-instances)

Each scenario describes the challenges that they introduce, and the benefits introduced by including a gateway.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The following guidance is suitable for any gateway implementation, including Azure API Management. The architecture diagrams represent the component generically in most scenarios to illustrate this.

## Client applications authenticated with an external identity provider

:::image type="complex" source="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-scenario-external-identity-provider.png" lightbox="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-scenario-external-identity-provider.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions where client applications authenticate users with an external identity provider, and authenticate with Azure OpenAI with API keys.":::
Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions where client applications authenticate users with an external identity provider, and authenticate with Azure OpenAI with API keys.
:::image-end:::

### Scenario use cases for external identity providers

In the scenario where a user operates an intelligent application that employs an external Identity Provider (IdP), like Okta or Auth0, the authentication process could differ. If the application is not hosted within Azure, the use of managed identities for authentication is not possible. In this case, API keys become essential as they offer a secure and straightforward method for these external applications to interact with Azure OpenAI, facilitating effective tracking and control of API usage.

When designing an architecture for accessing Azure OpenAI services, the following use cases could apply:

- User authentication is managed by a Microsoft Entra ID tenant external to the Azure OpenAI instance.
- User authentication is managed by an external OpenID Connect (OIDC) enabled identity provider, such as Okta or Auth0.

### Introduce a gateway to improve Azure OpenAI access security and maintainability

:::image type="complex" source="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-solution-external-identity-provider.png" lightbox="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-solution-external-identity-provider.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions injecting a gateway between client applications and Azure OpenAI, enabling authentication validation with an external identity provider before securely authenticating with Azure OpenAI using a managed identity with role-based access control.":::
Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions injecting a gateway between client applications and Azure OpenAI, enabling authentication validation with an external identity provider before securely authenticating with Azure OpenAI using a managed identity with role-based access control.
:::image-end:::

Introducing a gateway in this scenario allows server-side control to authorize access to Azure OpenAI using a managed identity regardless of the user authentication mechanism via an identity provider. The managed identity eliminates the need to manage API keys for Azure OpenAI instances in client application code, while improving security using Azure role-based access control (RBAC).

Using a gateway in this scenario, it will validate the authenticated user access tokens, such as a JSON Web Token (JWT), generated by the identity provider before granting authorization to the backing Azure OpenAI instance. When authenticating with Azure OpenAI, the gateway uses its assigned managed identity with least-privileged role-assignment to make requests for completions.

#### Tips for client applications authenticated with external identity providers  

- Additional client scopes can be added to your application registration in your identity provider to enable granular permission to consumers. These scopes allow client applications to request permission to perform specific operations in your gateway, including access to Azure OpenAI.
- This scenario is straightforward to configure using inbound policies in Azure API Management with the [validate-jwt policy](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/validate-jwt-policy) to enforce the existence and validity of a supported JWT.

#### Reasons to avoid a gateway for client applications authenticated with external identity providers

When implementing a single Azure deployed client application to access Azure OpenAI, configuration of user authentication and authorization could be easier within the application than at the gateway level. With this approach, your Azure deployed application can also be assigned the necessary RBAC to securely authenticate with Azure OpenAI directly.

## Client applications authenticated with certificates

:::image type="complex" source="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-scenario-client-certificates.png" lightbox="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-scenario-client-certificates.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions where users are authenticated with client applications using client certificates, and authenticate with Azure OpenAI with API keys.":::
Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions where users are authenticated with client applications using client certificates, and authenticate with Azure OpenAI with API keys.
:::image-end:::

### Scenario use cases for client certificate authentication

When designing an architecture for accessing Azure OpenAI services, the following use cases could apply:

- User authentication requirements cannot be met solely by OIDC providers.
- Authentication is made from machine-to-machine (M2M), where there is no user interaction.
- Client applications authenticate users via a client certificate, which can be validated by downstream services.

Azure OpenAI does not support client certification authentication natively, requiring the use of an API key to authenticate client application requests to the Azure OpenAI instance. In order to facilitate authentication using client digital certificates for Intelligent applications or APIs that utilize this method, we can rely on an API Gateway to request and verify client certificates during the TLS handshake.

### Introduce a gateway to handle client certificate validation with secure access to Azure OpenAI

:::image type="complex" source="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-solution-client-certificates.png" lightbox="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-solution-client-certificates.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions injecting a gateway between client applications and Azure OpenAI, enabling secure client certificate validation using Azure Key Vault, before securely authenticating with Azure OpenAI using a managed identity with role-based access control.":::
Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions injecting a gateway between client applications and Azure OpenAI, enabling secure client certificate validation using Azure Key Vault, before securely authenticating with Azure OpenAI using a managed identity with role-based access control.
:::image-end:::

Offloading client certification validation to a gateway provides server-side control to authorize access for valid client applications to Azure OpenAI. Additionally, taking advantage of managed identity to authenticate the gateway with Azure OpenAI instances reduces the complexity of managing API keys.

Deploying an Azure Key Vault alongside a gateway to store the root certificate authority (CA) will ensure that client certificate validation is managed in a centralized location, reducing maintenance overhead.

Using a gateway in this scenario, it is the responsibility of the gateway to [validate the client digital certificate presented by the Intelligent Application](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/api-management-howto-mutual-certificates-for-clients#policy-to-validate-client-certificates) and check the issuer, expiration, thumbprint, and revocation lists. A key vault can increase the security of handling the digital certificates issued to Intelligent Applications to authorize access to the Generative AI Services API.  

When authenticating with Azure OpenAI, the gateway uses its assigned managed identity with least-privileged role-assignment to make requests for completions.

In this scenario, the API Gateway can receive and verify the certificate presented by the Intelligent Application and abstract the API from the validation process. In implementations such as Azure API Management, you can use policies to verify the certificates presented by the clients and easily integrate with Azure Key Vault. Self-signed certificates should not be used for authentication purposes.

There are advantages that can surpass the disadvantages of using an API Gateway: centralized security with consistent security policies to evaluate client digital certificates. The API Gateway can also reduce complexity offloading the responsibility of certificate verification from the service, you can also enhance performance with cached responses, data compression and TLS termination. It can make the architecture more flexible, in case of authentication changes, which will be handled by the API Gateway and not the service.

#### Tips for client applications authenticated with client certificates

- When validating certificates, verify the entire certificate chain, including the root CA and intermediate certificates. Full verification ensures the authenticity of the certificate and prevents unauthorized access.
- Regularly rotate and renew client certificates to minimize the risk of certificate compromise. Automate this process using Azure Key Vault to ensure certificates are always up to date. Setting alerts for upcoming certificate expirations will also prevent service disruption at the gateway.
- Use a policy on the API Gateway to ensure certificate verification is consistent for all clients.

#### Reasons to avoid a gateway for client applications authenticate with client certificates

There are a few disadvantages to the use of an API Gateway to facilitate client certificates to authenticate the Intelligent Applications: the API Gateway can become a single point of failure, there is an increase in latency as a new appliance is deployed in front of the API, and there could be vendor lock-in, if the decision is made to buy off the shelf versus implementing an API Gateway.

In smaller applications or environments where security and certificate management can be handled directly within the application without a gateway, the added complexity could outweigh the benefits. You must carefully assess your specific needs, resource availability, and the criticality of your applications before deciding to implement a gateway for client certificate authentication.

## Multiple client applications accessing a shared Azure OpenAI instance

:::image type="complex" source="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-scenario-multiple-clients.png" lightbox="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-scenario-multiple-clients.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions where multiple client applications authenticate with Azure OpenAI using a shared API key.":::
Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions where multiple client applications authenticate with Azure OpenAI using a shared API key.
:::image-end:::

### Scenario use cases for multiple client applications accessing a shared Azure OpenAI instance

When designing an architecture for accessing Azure OpenAI services, the following use cases could apply:

- Multiple client applications are deployed across multiple environments, including Azure, other cloud providers, or on-premises.
- A distributed microservice architecture requires access to a shared Azure OpenAI instance.

Depending on where the applications are deployed, a mix of authentication methods can be used when making a request to the Azure OpenAI instance. Where not deployed in Azure, client applications share an API key that is managed per application.

### Introduce a gateway to handle multiple clients accessing Azure OpenAI with separate subscription keys and unified authentication

:::image type="complex" source="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-solution-multiple-clients.png" lightbox="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-solution-multiple-clients.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions injecting a gateway between multiple client applications and Azure OpenAI, providing independent subscription keys that are validated by the gateway, before securely authenticating with Azure OpenAI using a managed identity with role-based access control.":::
Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions injecting a gateway between multiple client applications and Azure OpenAI, providing independent subscription keys that are validated by the gateway, before securely authenticating with Azure OpenAI using a managed identity with role-based access control.
:::image-end:::

Using a shared API key across multiple client applications increases the attack surface for Azure OpenAI deployments, complicating key management for all client applications if one becomes compromised.

By implementing a gateway, you can centralize authentication, reducing the risk associated with key distribution. Managing API keys across numerous client applications can be complex. Regularly rotating keys is a best practice, but doing this across multiple clients can be logistically challenging. The gateway simplifies this process by handling authentication centrally.  

Choosing to configure a gateway with managed identities for Azure OpenAI authentication reduces the administrative burden of API key management while enhancing security.  

#### Tips for multiple client applications access a shared Azure OpenAI instance

- Since using a managed identity might reduce traceability of the end user and client application, enhance monitoring on metrics related to API requests. The gateway should provide any additional tracing metadata associated with the request, such as the requesting client and user IDs.
- Beyond managed identities, consider combining this approach with an identity provider as covered in [Introduce a gateway to improve Azure OpenAI access security and maintainability](#client-applications-authenticated-with-an-external-identity-provider). This adds an additional layer of security at the gateway for client requests.
- When routing multiple client application requests through a gateway to a shared Azure OpenAI service, consider implementing retry policies for transient failures. For more best practices in gateway implementations for Azure OpenAI deployments, see [using a gateway in front of multiple Azure OpenAI deployments](./azure-openai-gateway-multi-backend.yml).

## Client applications accessing multiple Azure OpenAI instances

If the intelligent applications are not hosted within Azure, managed identities cannot be utilized for authentication.  Instead, API keys are used to authenticate Azure OpenAI for these external applications.

:::image type="complex" source="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-scenario-multiple-services.png" lightbox="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-scenario-multiple-services.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions where client applications authenticate with multiple Azure OpenAI instances using shared API keys per instance.":::
Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions where client applications authenticate with multiple Azure OpenAI instances using shared API keys per instance.
:::image-end:::

### Scenario use cases for accessing multiple Azure OpenAI instances

When designing an architecture for accessing Azure OpenAI services, the following use cases could apply:

- Multi-tenant client applications ensure resources are as close as possible to their users' region.
- Client applications maximize tokens per minute (TPM) quotas by deploying instances across regions.
- Client applications taking advantage of multiple model capabilities not available in a single region.

These scenarios may require client applications to manage API keys for each Azure OpenAI instance to authenticate requests.

### Introduce a gateway to handle client applications accessing multiple Azure OpenAI deployments with unified authentication

:::image type="complex" source="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-solution-multiple-services.png" lightbox="_images/azure-openai-gateway-identity-solution-multiple-services.png" alt-text="Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions injecting a gateway between client applications and multiple Azure OpenAI instances, providing a single dedicated subscription key that are validated by the gateway, before securely authenticating with Azure OpenAI using a managed identity with role-based access control.":::
Diagram that shows a conceptual architecture for solutions injecting a gateway between client applications and multiple Azure OpenAI instances, providing a single dedicated subscription key that are validated by the gateway, before securely authenticating with Azure OpenAI using a managed identity with role-based access control.
:::image-end:::

The approach for introducing a gateway to handle client applications accessing multiple Azure OpenAI deployments follows the same reasons covered by introducing a gateway to handle multiple clients accessing a shared Azure OpenAI deployment.

In addition to those reasons, by using a single user-defined managed identity to authenticate requests from the gateway to multiple Azure OpenAI instances, the process for authentication is streamlined. This reduces the overall operational overhead and minimizes the risks of misconfiguration of the client when working with multiple instances.

#### Tips for client applications accessing multiple Azure OpenAI instances

- Implement load balancing techniques to distribute the API requests across multiple instances of the Azure OpenAI service to handle high traffic and ensure high availability. For more guidance on this, see [using a gateway in front of multiple Azure OpenAI deployments or instances](./azure-openai-gateway-multi-backend.yml).
- For multi-tenant scenarios using multiple Azure OpenAI instances, tracking token usage for a specific tenant must be correlated at the gateway. This ensures that you are tracking total token usage regardless of the backend Azure OpenAI instance that the request was forwarded to.  

### Reasons to avoid a gateway for accessing a shared Azure OpenAI instance or multiple Azure Open AI instances

Introducing a gateway can be a potential single point of failure for solutions where high availability is a requirement. If the gateway experiences downtime or performance issues, all client applications relying on it for access to the Azure OpenAI instance will be affected. This can lead to widespread service disruptions, affecting the availability and reliability of critical applications. Instead, provide multiple gateway instances and follow our best practice guidance when [using a gateway in front of multiple Azure OpenAI deployments](./azure-openai-gateway-multi-backend.yml).

Additionally, the gateway can introduce latency, which could be detrimental in performance-sensitive applications. Each request from a client must pass through the gateway, adding extra processing time and potentially slowing down response times. Directly connecting client applications to the Azure OpenAI instance, while managing authentication and authorization individually, might be more efficient in such cases. This direct approach, albeit more complex to manage, can ensure the lowest possible latency and highest performance for critical applications.

## General recommendations

When integrating Azure OpenAI services through a gateway, there are several cross-cutting recommendations to consider that apply in all scenarios.

Opting for Azure API Management (APIM) instead of building your own can deliver considerable advantages such as efficient API orchestration, seamless integration with other Azure services, and cost-effectiveness by reducing development and maintenance efforts. APIM supports authentication and authorization by integrating with various identity providers like Entra ID, enabling OAuth 2.0, and offering policy-based authorization and incorporates managed identities for secure access to Azure OpenAI, ensuring robust and secure API management.

### Gateway policy enforcement

Before requests to Azure OpenAI instances are sent via a gateway, inbound authentication and authorization policies should be enforced. Whether by user access tokens from an identity provider or certificate validation, implementing this approach ensures that only authenticated and authorized requests are forwarded on.

Implementing additional auth scoping with roles and permissions for client applications in your gateway also enables granular control. These scopes allow specific operations to be permitted based on the client application's needs, enhancing security and manageability.

### Use Azure managed identities

Using Azure managed identities simplifies authentication across all client application scenarios by centralizing authentication management. This approach reduces the complexity and risks associated with managing multiple API keys or credentials in client applications.

As managed identities inherently support Azure RBAC, they ensure the gateway has only the right level of permission to access Azure OpenAI instances. This reduces the risk of unauthorized access and simplifies compliance with security policies.

### Implement comprehensive observability

Given the potential reduction in traceability in the Azure Open AI Service (a managed identity represents the API Gateway service and not the end-user or Intelligent Application that initiated the request) when using a gateway with managed identities, it is crucial to enhance observability on metrics related to API requests. Gateways should provide additional tracing metadata, including the requesting client and user IDs, to maintain visibility over access patterns and usage.

Centralized logging of all requests passing through the gateway also helps in maintaining an audit trail. This is especially important for troubleshooting, compliance, and ensuring that unauthorized access attempts can be detected.

## Gateway implementations

Azure does not offer a turn-key solution or reference architecture for building such a gateway. As mentioned in the introduction article, you must build and operate this gateway. The following are examples of community-supported implementations covering the previously mentioned use cases. Consider referencing these samples when you build your own gateway solution.

| Implementation       | Example |
| :------------------- | :------ |
| Azure OpenAI Application Identity and Security – Learn Live Webinar | [Learn Live: Azure OpenAI Application Identity & Security (youtube.com)](https://www.youtube.com/live/pDjXsNWYmvo) |

## Next steps

Implementing a gateway for your workload provides benefits beyond the scenarios for improving authentication and authorization detailed in this article. Learn about the other [key challenges](./azure-openai-gateway-guide.yml#key-challenges) a gateway can solve.

## Contributors

*This article is maintained by Microsoft. It was originally written by the following contributors.*

Principal authors:

- [Lizet Pena De Sola](https://www.linkedin.com/in/lizetp/) | Senior Customer Engineer, FastTrack for Azure
- [Bappaditya Banerjee](https://www.linkedin.com/in/bappaditya-banerjee-8860ba7/) | Senior Customer Engineer, FastTrack for Azure
- [James Croft](https://www.linkedin.com/in/jmcroft/) | Customer Engineer, ISV & Digital Native Center of Excellence

*To see nonpublic LinkedIn profiles, sign in to LinkedIn.*

## Summary

This article provides an effective solution for implementing alternative authentication mechanisms for intelligent applications communicating with Azure OpenAI Service instances through a gateway proxy. By using an identity provider for user authentication combined with managed identity for authenticating with Azure OpenAI without the need for managed keys, teams can take advantage of fine-grained access control their Azure OpenAI endpoints and models.

## Related resources

- [Role-based access control for Azure OpenAI](/azure/ai-services/openai/how-to/role-based-access-control)
- [Use managed identities in Azure API Management](/azure/api-management/api-management-howto-use-managed-service-identity)
- [Policies in Azure API Management](/azure/api-management/api-management-howto-policies)
- [Authentication and authorization to APIs in Azure API Management](/azure/api-management/authentication-authorization-overview)
- [Protect an API in API Management using OAuth 2.0 and Microsoft Entra ID](/azure/api-management/api-management-howto-protect-backend-with-aad)
- [Secure API Management backend using client certificate authentication](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/api-management/api-management-howto-mutual-certificates) 
