---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 016f1b7b-663c-450b-a56a-60a502cb14c5
ms.assessment_question: Do you understand what your Cloud costs usually are and what they are today?
---
## Gather information

It's natural to reach for the invoice as the source of truth for your costs. Stakeholders should review this information in relation to other factors and data sources. Do you understand what your Cloud costs usually are? Do you know if there have been significant changes in either the business or the I.T. capabilities that may have contributed to a change in these costs? Make sure you identify which business-related data is relevant to your Cloud cost conversation, to ensure that all aspects are considered.

In addition to detailed usage information on your invoice, Azure provides you with tools that surface information such as incurred costs and makes recommendations on cost savings (such as downsizing virtual machines). Nonetheless, it's important to consider building additional custom solutions to fully maximize cost savings where identifiable:

### Azure Cost Management – Cost Analysis

Cost Analysis allows you to view aggregated costs to understand where they have occurred over time and to identify your spending trends. This can be broken down into time periods and viewed against your budgets. You can also set the scope of the costs, for example view all costs incurred by resources with a certain tag or within a specific resource group. Cost Analysis provides inbuilt charts but also supports custom views and the ability to download grouped and filtered data in CSV format. For more information: /azure/cost-management/quick-acm-cost-analysis

### Azure Cost Management - Advisor

Advisor cost management recommendations proactively highlight areas of service underuse and steps that you can take to realize cost savings. This includes virtual machines which could be resized to a lower SKU, un-provisioned ExpressRoute circuits and idle virtual network gateways. You can act on these recommendations, postpone them or download them as a CSV or PDF file. To get started with Advisor cost management recommendations, visit: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/azure/advisor/advisor-cost-recommendations. It's important to note, while Azure Advisor is a great tool offered at no additional cost, it does not provide an exhaustive list of recommendations across all underutilized or orphaned resources in Azure.

### Power BI and Azure Consumption Insights

For more flexibility with your cost reports, Azure Consumption Insights can be read into Microsoft's Power BI service. With Power BI, you can then create custom dashboards and reports, ask questions of your data and publish & share your work. Note: Sharing requires Power BI Premium licenses. To connect your billing data to Power BI, visit: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-gb/power-bi/service-connect-to-azure-consumption-insights

#### Azure Billing API and Azure Consumption API

If you have another preferred data analysis tool, Azure comes with Billing APIs (in Preview) that you can connect to. Import invoices, resource usage and rate cards: /azure/billing/billing-usage-rate-card-overview or connect to additional usage data including Budgets and Reserved Instances consumption: /azure/billing/billing-consumption-api-overview

>[!NOTE]
> There are several different ways of purchasing Azure services and not all of them are supported by Azure Cost Management. For example, detailed billing information for services purchased through a Cloud Solution Provider must be obtained directly from your CSP. For more information on supported cost data, visit /azure/cost-management/understand-cost-mgt-data

### Custom Solutions

Leverage Azure APIs to build custom scripts that can run on a schedule and identify resources that are orphaned, such as unattached managed disks, load balancers, application gateways, etc. These orphaned resources, while unused, still incur a monthly flat rate. Further resources that are empty such as Azure SQL servers with no user databases. Just as orphaned resources, these empty resources incur a monthly flat fee separate from the pay-per-GB fees. Finally, resources that are stale in utilization, for example, blobs or tables in storage accounts being a result of VM diagnostics. Check for timestamps of last-use or modification of the item to determine if it should deleted.

Regardless of how you gather your cost information, make sure you develop and communicate a consistent business process for capturing and communicating this incurred cost information to your stakeholders.
