---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 08da9263-155b-452f-a0ea-b5390108cf39
ms.assessment_question: You estimate and compare your costs.
---
## Estimating & comparing costs

From the real experience, it is not easy to estimate cloud cost at the initial step of migration to the cloud. In many cases first calculation of cloud resources is quite inaccurate and relays more on more familiar and common on-prem approach. Two main pitfalls of the initial calculation are: either cloud is much more expensive comparing to on-prem or it is cheaper but some services are missed from the calculation:

- Let us first take a look at the situation when cloud calculation is shocking you comparing to on-prem calculation, being much more costly – in most cases, if you build you on-prem DC using best-practices and guidance, on-prem DC cost would be close to cloud. But you have to be aware that you haven't missed in your on-prem calculation important parts of the solution such: cooling, electricity, IT labor cost, maintain security and disaster recovery etc. In order to be sure that your on-prem calculation contain all important part – we strongly suggest you to check with Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) Calculator for Azure (https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/tco/calculator/)

- As for the second pitfall – it is easy to forget to add or choose the right storage type for the solution, or skip networking cost (especially downloading big amount of data – which is chargeable). Or simply – choose the cheaper and smaller VMs which simply cannot provide expected performance for the solution.

Of course, there are number of the real experts on the market within Microsoft Partners eco-system who have real experience with real complex projects. But sometimes in very big and complex project even for them difficult accurately calculate the real cloud services cost. Good thing here is that even the real cost is hardly estimated at the very first theoretical level - first POC (proof of concept) brings a lot of texture and helps to produce more accurate calculation.
