---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 0b02951b-c60d-4593-a7c8-5a9e5ac645cd
ms.assessment_question: You have a DDoS mitigation plan in place.
---
## Mitigate DDoS attacks

Enable Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS) mitigations for all
business-critical web application and services.

DDoS attacks are prevalent and are easily carried out by unsophisticated
attackers. There are even 'DDoS as a service' options on the dark net. DDoS
attacks can be very debilitating and completely block access to your services
and even take down the services, depending on the type of DDoS attack.

The major cloud service providers offer DDoS protection of services of varying
effectiveness and capacity. The cloud service providers typically provide two
DDoS protection options:

-   DDoS protection at the cloud network fabric level – all customers of the
    cloud service provider benefit from these protections. The protection is usually focused at the network (layer 3) level.

-   DDoS protection at higher levels that profile your services – this kind of
    protection will baseline your deployments and then use machine learning
    techniques to detect anomalous traffic and proactively protect based on
    their protection before there is service degradation

We recommend that you adopt the advance protection for any services where
downtime will have negative impact on the business.

An example of advanced DDoS protection is the [Azure DDoS Protection
Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/virtual-network/ddos-protection-overview).
