---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 0c294da9-897f-4e40-9eb9-e683ebf3b548
ms.assessment_question: You have implemented the necessary instrumentation to monitor your workload.
---
## Instrumentation

It's not practical to monitor your application directly, so instrumentation is key. A large-scale distributed system might run on dozens of virtual machines (VMs), which are added and removed over time. Likewise, a cloud application might use a number of data stores and a single user action might span multiple subsystems.

Provide rich instrumentation:

- For failures that are likely but have not yet occurred, provide enough data to determine the cause, mitigate the situation, and ensure that the system remains available.
- For failures that have already occurred, the application should return an appropriate error message to the user but should attempt to continue running, albeit with reduced functionality.

Monitoring systems should capture comprehensive details so that applications can be restored efficiently and, if necessary, designers and developers can modify the system to prevent the situation from recurring.

The raw data for monitoring can come from a variety of sources, including:

- Application logs, such as those produced by the [Azure Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-insights-overview) service.
- Operating system performance metrics collected by [Azure monitoring agents](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/agents-overview).
- [Azure resources](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/metrics-supported), including metrics collected by Azure Monitor.
- [Azure Service Health](/azure/service-health/service-health-overview), which offers a dashboard to help you track active events.
- [Azure AD logs](/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/howto-integrate-activity-logs-with-log-analytics) built into the Azure platform.

Most Azure services have metrics and diagnostics that you can configure to analyze and determine the cause of problems. To learn more, see [Monitoring data collected by Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/platform/data-collection).
