---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 14cde8a6-9b90-4b7c-8e1d-662f60254302
ms.assessment_question: You have balanced attacker cost versus your own
---
## Increasing attacker cost

Cybersecurity attacks are planned and conducted by human attackers that must
manage their return on investment into attacks (return could include profit
or achieving an assigned objective). As you invest in security, you should
carefully consider how you can damage the *attacker’s return on investment*
with your defensive investments.

The best way to damage an attacker’s ability to successfully attack your
organization is to increase their cost by preventing and detecting easy and
cheap attack methods. This will rapidly increase the minimum attacker cost
and make you a less attractive target overall (particularly to profit driven
attackers). Some attackers like nation states have considerable resources
for attack research and execution, but increasing their costs still affects
how many successful attacks they can mount with the (large but) finite
amount of talent and time available. Well-resourced attackers often have
invested in building a library of advanced attacks, but typically hold them
back until needed because using these methods risks 'burning' them— exposing
them to discovery and mitigation by vendors and target organizations.
Removing cheap and easy attacks impacts the effectiveness of all attackers
and lowers your risk overall.

This is a general mindset with many possible applications, but two concrete
applications of this are:

-   **Investment criteria** - As you consider various security investments,
    evaluate whether the potential investments lower attacker cost overall (for example,
    does this security investment force an attacker to build or buy a more
    expensive option? Does it eliminate one of many cheap options on the
    attacker menu? Or does it only eliminate an expensive/rare attack method?)

-   **Attack simulation goals** – As you engage in penetration testing or red
    teaming activities to test, you should focus these teams on identifying and
    cataloging the lowest cost methods to get to business critical data so you
    can eliminate those first.
