---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 1a6f861d-df86-4b8b-86bd-7846f639346d
ms.assessment_question: Utilize Microservices
---
## Microservices

Microservices is a software engineering technique to decompose software into isolated, fine grained, and loosely coupled modules that can independently deployed and independently versioned. One could say that microservices refines and builds on the "component" patterns from the 1990's and early 2000's such as COM (Component Object Model) for breaking up logic into interface exposed modules. With the internet taking center stage, component models were combined with web protocols and transitioned into Service Oriented Architecture, and ultimately Web Services. Microservices is a type of web service that is particularly optimized for high scale requirements. This is because microsevices are designed to be independent with both deployment and versioning, and therefore can be scaled independently. So when combined with an orchestration platform designed to execute and manage microservices such as Kubernetes or Service Fabric, individual services can be right sized, scaled up, scaled down, and dynamically configured to match user demand. Additionally, microservices can be built and run using cloud serverless platforms such as Azure Functions that can dynamically scale with a pay-per-use model. More detail on all of these topics can be found here. </azure/architecture/microservices/>
