---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 1cec5c2d-004a-451e-9bba-d1a6e1fcd600
ms.assessment_question: You use blueprints to consistently deploy environments that comply with organizational polcies
---
## Increase automation with Azure Blueprints

Use Azure’s native automation capabilities to increase consistency, compliance,
and deployment speed for workloads.

Automation of deployment and maintenance tasks reduces security and compliance
risk by limiting opportunity to introduce human errors during manual tasks. This
will also allow both IT Operations teams and security teams to shift their focus
from repeated manual tasks to higher value tasks like enabling developers and
business initiatives, protecting information, and so on.

Utilize the Azure Blueprint service to rapidly and consistently deploy
application environments that are compliant with your organization’s policies
and external regulations. [Azure Blueprint Service](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/governance/blueprints/)
automates deployment of environments including RBAC roles, policies, resources
(VM/Net/Storage/etc.), and more. Azure Blueprints builds on Microsoft’s
significant investment into the Azure Resource Manager to standardize
resource deployment in Azure and enable resource deployment and governance based
on a desired-state approach. You can use built in configurations in Azure
Blueprint, make your own, or just use Resource Manager scripts for smaller scope.

Several [Security and Compliance Blueprints](https://servicetrust.microsoft.com/ViewPage/BlueprintOverview) [samples](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/governance/blueprints/samples/)
are available to use as a starting template.
