---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 2284ac26-7be3-458a-bb96-d8c4695f5a02
ms.assessment_question: Using dynamic service discovery for micro-services applications
---
## Dynamic service discovery for micro-services applications

Clients of a service use either Client-side discovery or Server-side discovery to determine the location of a service instance to send requests. Service discovery is a process of figuring out how to connect to a service, and if done correctly, can lead to software that scales out as usage increases. Decomposing an application into microservices is a practice that can directly lead to native scalability given a service's ability to be scaled and updated individually. This level of decoupling is an architectural best practice. However, when many microservices are in play, managing, executing, and operationalizing the services becomes a bottleneck, leading to the incorporation of an orchestration platform like Kubernetes or Service Fabric. Both of these platforms provide built-in services for executing, scaling, and operating a microservices architecture; and one of those key services is discovery and finding where a particular service is running. The client of the service should not need to know or care where the service executes or how many instance of the service are executing. It is the job of the orchestration platform to connect the client to the service through a decoupled discovery services, such as DNS, that major orchestration platforms all provide. An example of how this works in Kubernetes can be found here: <https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/dns-pod-service/>. The reason incorporating dynamic service discovery can lead to scalability gains is that each service can then be sized independently with multiple instances without the service client having this knowledge or changing its interaction.  

Learn More: [https://microservices.io/patterns/service-registry.html](https://microservices.io/patterns/service-registry.html)
