---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 27a38978-7a94-431a-80dd-a69dc2215f54
ms.assessment_question: You leverage native detection and controls
---
## Leverage native detections and controls

You should favor the use of security detections and controls built into the
cloud platform before creating custom detections using event logs from the
cloud.

Cloud platforms evolve rapidly with new features, which can make maintaining
detections challenging. Native controls are maintained by the cloud provider and
are typically high quality (low false positive rate).

Because many organizations may use multiple cloud platforms and need a unified
view across the enterprise, you should ensure these native detections and
controls feed a centralize SIEM or other tool. We don’t recommend trying to
substitute generalized log analysis tools and queries instead of native
detections and controls. These tools can offer numerous values for proactive
hunting activities, but getting to a high-quality alert with these tools
requires application of deep expertise and time that could be better spent on
hunting and other activities.

To complement the broad visibility of a centralized SIEM (like Azure Sentinel,
Splunk, or QRadar), you should leverage native detections and controls such as

-   Organizations using Azure should leverage capabilities like Azure Security
    Center for alert generation on the Azure platform.

-   Organizations should leverage native logging capabilities like Azure Monitor
    and AWS CloudTrail for pulling logs into a central view

-   Organizations using Azure should leverage Network Security Group (NSG)
    capabilities for visibility into network activities on the Azure platform.

-   Investigation practices should leverage native tools with deep knowledge of
    the asset type such as an Endpoint Detection and Response (EDR) solution,
    Identity tools, and Azure Sentinel.
