---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 32c70f48-32ed-4c95-91e9-b42ed2873242
ms.assessment_question: You have contained attacker access
---
## Containing attacker access

The actual security risk for an organization is heavily influenced by how
much access an adversary can or does obtain to valuable systems and data.
Your investments should be focused on ensuring your security measures
constrain how much access an adversary gets:

**Time** – Limit how long the adversary can have access to your environment
during an attack operation. This is primarily achieved through security
operations that rapidly detect potential attacks, prioritizing potential
detections so your team is focused on quickly investigating real attacks
(vs. false positives), and reducing your mean time to remediate those real
incidents.  
More information on these goals and metrics is in the [security
operations](/azure/architecture/security/security-operations#objective-and-metrics) section.

**Privilege** – Limit the privileges and permissions that an adversary can
gain during an attack operation (by permissions and by amount of time
privileges are assigned). As attackers gain more privileges, they can access
more target systems and data (or leverage those systems to continue to pivot
within your environment). Your security strategy should be focused on
containing those privileges with:
- Preventive controls
- Detection/response/recovery that is prioritized to focus on business
critical assets and high amounts of permissions to assets typically IT
operations roles.
