---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 368b37c0-46f7-4872-8af0-907f71dd119e
ms.assessment_question: You have identified and classified business critical applications
---
## Identify and classify business critical applications

Ensure you have identified and classified the applications in your portfolio
that are critical to business functions.

Enterprise organizations typically have a large application portfolio, so
prioritizing where to invest time and effort into manual and resource-intensive
tasks like threat modeling can increase the effectiveness of your security
program.

Identify applications that have a high potential impact and/or a high potential
exposure to risk.

-   **High potential impact** – Identify application that would a significant
    impact on the business if compromised. This could take the form of one or
    more of:

    -   **Business critical data** – Applications that process or store
        information, which would cause significant negative business or mission
        impact if an assurance of confidentiality, integrity, or availability is
        lost.

    -   **Regulated data** – Applications that handle monetary instruments and
        sensitive personal information regulated by standards. For example, payment card
        industry (PCI) and Health Information Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA).

    -   **Business critical availability** – Applications whose functionality is
        critical to organizations business mission such as production lines
        generating revenue, devices, or services critical to life and safety, and
        other critical functions.

    -   **Significant Access** – Applications which have access to systems with
        a high potential impact through technical means such as

        -   *Stored Credentials* or keys/certificates that grant access to the
            data/service

        -   *Permissions* granted via access control lists or other means

-   **High exposure to attacks** – Applications that are easily accessible to
    attackers such as web applications on the open internet. Legacy applications
    can also be higher exposure as attackers and penetration testers
    frequently target them because they know these legacy applications often
    have vulnerabilities that are difficult to fix.
