---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 446b4aaa-3e24-4ca6-b68d-6fd73a186e91
ms.assessment_question: You have put into place a security containment strategy
---
## Build a security containment strategy

Create a risk containment strategy that blends proven approaches including:

-   Existing network security controls and practices

-   Native security controls available in Azure

-   Zero trust approaches

Containment of attack vectors within an environment is critical. However, in
order to be effective in cloud environments, traditional approaches may prove
inadequate and security organizations need to evolve their methods.

-   Consistency of controls across on-premises and cloud infrastructure is
    important, but defenses are more effective and manageable when leveraging
    native capabilities provided by a cloud service provider, dynamic
    just-in-time (JIT) approaches, and integrated identity and password
    controls, such as those recommended by zero trust/continuous validation
    approaches.

-   A network security best practice is to make sure there are network access
    controls between network constructs. These constructs can represent virtual
    networks, or subnets within those virtual networks. This works to protect
    and contain East-West traffic within your cloud network infrastructure.

-   An important network security design decision is to use or not use
    host-based firewalls. Host-based firewalls support a comprehensive defense
    in-depth strategy. However, to be of most use they require significant
    management overhead. If your organization has found them effective in
    helping you protect and discover threats in the past, you might consider
    using them for your cloud-based assets. If you discover that they have not
    added significant value, discontinue their use and explore native solutions
    on your cloud service provider’s platform that deliver similar value.

An evolving emerging best practice recommendation is to adopt a Zero Trust
strategy based on user, device, and application identities. In contrast to
network access controls that are based on elements such as source and
destination IP address, protocols, and port numbers, Zero Trust enforces and
validates access control at 'access time'. This avoids the need to play a
prediction game for an entire deployment, network, or subnet – only the
destination resource needs to provide the necessary access controls.

-   Azure Network Security Groups can be used for basic layer 3 & 4 access
    controls between Azure Virtual Networks, their subnets, and the Internet.

-   Azure Web Application Firewall and the Azure Firewall can be used for more
    advanced network access controls that require application layer support.

-   Local Admin Password Solution (LAPS) or a third-party Privileged Access
    Management can set strong local admin passwords and just in time access to
    them

Additionally, third parties offer microsegmentation approaches that may enhance
your network controls by applying zero trust principles to networks you control
with legacy assets on them.
