---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 4cc848d2-a203-4d78-a54a-c46b2a673ec9
ms.assessment_question: You perform cost reviews
---
## Performing cost reviews

Effective ongoing cost management includes informed cost reviews with key stakeholders. These can happen on a regular cadence but may also be required reactively if the cost management tools alert to a potential cost issue, such as a budget limit being reached.

### Identify stakeholders

Which of your regular financial stakeholders need visibility of and input into your Cloud costs? Do they have a fundamental knowledge of Cloud billing, capabilities and business benefits to enable them to understand both the financial metrics and the impact of their recommendations or decisions? Consider what additional knowledge or training they may need to help them understand Cloud cost metering and Cloud architectures.

Which additional stakeholders also need to be present? This could include key application owners, systems administrators who monitor and back-up Cloud systems, and business unit representatives.

Which other stakeholders may be required but only when necessary? Are your Cloud resources appropriately tagged so you can easily identify owners of systems or applications that are contributing to cost noise? Are they aware that their participation in cost reviews may be required and what is expected of them?

### Determine frequency

Within your existing business processes, there may be other cost reviews that occur which would align with adding a review of your Cloud costs, or maybe you need to schedule an additional meeting. Cloud costs can be reviewed:

- During the billing period – for an awareness of the estimated pending billing;

- After the billing period – to review actual spend with activity that occurred that month or

- On an ad-hoc basis – usually triggered by a [budget alert](/azure/cost-management/cost-mgt-alerts-monitor-usage-spending) or Azure Advisor recommendation.

Web Direct (pay as you go) and CSP billing occurs monthly. Note that while Enterprise Agreement (EA) billing occurs annually, each month's consumption counts towards your EA budget, so these costs should still be reviewed monthly.
