---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 55a41509-98e8-4676-9030-dcba98b7d993
ms.assessment_question: You use the root management group carefully
---
## Use root management group carefully

Use the Root Management Group (MG) for enterprise consistency, but test changes
carefully to minimize risk of operational disruption.

The root management group enables you to ensure consistency across the enterprise by applying policies, permissions, and tags across all subscriptions.
Care must be taken when planning and implementing assignments to the root
management group because this can affect every resource on Azure and potentially
cause downtime or other negative impacts on productivity in the event of errors
or unanticipated effects.

Root management group guidance:

-   **Plan Carefully** - Select enterprise-wide elements to the root management
    group that have a clear requirement to be applied across every resource
    and/or low impact.

    Good candidates include:

    -   **Regulatory requirements** with clear business risk/impact (for example,
        restrictions related to data sovereignty).

    -   **Near-zero potential negative impact** on operations such as policy
        with audit effect, Tag assignment, RBAC permissions assignments that
        have been carefully reviewed.

-   **Test First -** Carefully test all enterprise-wide changes on the root
    management group before applying (policy, tags, RBAC model, etc.) using a

    -   **Test Lab -** Representative lab tenant or lab segment in production
        tenant.

    -   **Production Pilot -** Segment MG or Designated subset in
        subscription(s) / MG.

-   **Validate Changes** – to ensure they have the desired effect.
