---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 59218e34-f303-4b96-80b0-f2432dba7317
ms.assessment_question: Use async calls and waits to prevent locks
---
## Asynchronous Programming

When an application calls a remote service leveraging a synchronous call, some of resources on the client (i.e caller thread, network socket, etc) are blocked and unavailable for use elsewhere until the remote service invocation completes. This pattern is simple, but leads to obvious inefficiencies. Asynchronous programming is an alternative approach that enables a remote service to be executed without waiting and blocking resources on the client. This is a critical pattern for enabling cloud scalable software and is available in most modern programming languages and platforms.

There are many ways to inject asynchronous programming into an application design. In a simplest form, remote calls be asynchronously executed using built-in language constructs like "async/await" in .NET C#. Language construct example here: </dotnet/csharp/async>. .NET has other build-in platform support for asynchronous programming with Task and Event based asynchronous patters. </dotnet/standard/asynchronous-programming-patterns/task-based-asynchronous-pattern-tap>, </dotnet/standard/asynchronous-programming-patterns/event-based-asynchronous-pattern-eap>.

Asynchronous patterns are critical for cloud scale, and Azure enables the implementation of cloud patterns for async request/reply appropriate for long running worker type processing. These patterns simulate what a programming language like C# offers natively for request/response, but optimized for moving back-end processing out of a front-end. More information here: </azure/architecture/patterns/async-request-reply>
