---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 59fb1292-709c-469a-a57c-68760210f30c
ms.assessment_question: Errors and failures are captured and reported
---
## Application logs

Application logs are an important source of diagnostics data. To gain insight when you need it most, follow best practices for application logging.

### Log data in the production environment

Capture robust telemetry data while the application is running in the production environment, so you have sufficient information to diagnose the cause of issues in the production state.

### Log events at service boundaries

Include a correlation ID that flows across service boundaries. If a transaction flows through multiple services and one of them fails, the correlation ID helps you track requests across your application and pinpoints why the transaction failed.

### Use semantic (structured) logging

With structured logs, it's easier to automate the consumption and analysis of the log data, which is especially important at cloud scale. Generally, we recommend storing Azure resources metrics and diagnostics data in a Log Analytics workspace rather than in a storage account. This way, you can use Kusto queries to obtain the data you want quickly and in a structured format. You can also use Azure Monitor APIs and Azure Log Analytics APIs.

### Use asynchronous logging

Synchronous logging operations sometimes block your application code, causing requests to back up as logs are written. Use asynchronous logging to preserve availability during application logging.

### Separate application logging from auditing

Audit records are commonly maintained for compliance or regulatory requirements and must be complete. To avoid dropped transactions, maintain audit logs separately from diagnostic logs.
