---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/14/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 61c17190-428b-47ca-b09f-68daca74faf2
ms.assessment_question: Deployed the application across multiple regions
---
## Operating in multiple regions

If your application is deployed to a single region, in the rare event the entire region becomes unavailable, your application will also be unavailable. This may be unacceptable under the terms of your application's SLA. If so, consider deploying your application and its services across multiple regions. A multi-region deployment can use an active-active pattern (distributing requests across multiple active instances) or an active-passive pattern (keeping a "warm" instance in reserve, in case the primary instance fails)

Many failures are manageable within the same Azure region. However, in the unlikely event of a region-wide service disruption, the locally redundant copies of your data aren't available. If you've enabled geo-replication, there are three additional copies of your blobs and tables in a different region. If Microsoft declares the region lost, Azure remaps all the DNS entries to the secondary region.

> [!NOTE]
> This process occurs only for region-wide service disruptions and is not within your control. Consider using [Azure Site Recovery](/azure/site-recovery/) to achieve better RPO and RTO. Using Site Recovery, you decide what is an acceptable outage and when to fail over to the replicated VMs.

>[!NOTE]
>The selection of the Resource Group location is important. In the event of a regional outage, you will be unable to control resources inside that Resource Group, regardless of what region those resources are actually in (i.e., the resources in the other region(s) will continue to function, but management plane operations will be unavailable.

Your response to a region-wide service disruption depends on your deployment and your disaster recovery plan.

- As a cost-control strategy, for non-critical applications that don't require a guaranteed recovery time, it might make sense to redeploy to a different region.
- For applications that are hosted in another region with deployed roles but don't distribute traffic across regions (*active/passive deployment*), switch to the secondary hosted service in the alternate region.
- For applications that have a full-scale secondary deployment in another region (*active/active deployment*), route traffic to that region.

To learn more about recovering from a region-wide service disruption, see [Recover from a region-wide service disruption](../resiliency/recovery-loss-azure-region.md).

### VM recovery

For critical apps, plan for recovering VMs in the event of a region-wide service disruption.

- Use Azure Backup or another backup method to create cross-region backups that are application consistent. (Replication of the Backup vault must be configured at the time of creation.)
- Use Site Recovery to replicate across regions for one-click application failover and failover testing.
- Use Traffic Manager to automate user traffic failover to another region.

To learn more, see [Recover from a region-wide service disruption, Virtual machines](../resiliency/recovery-loss-azure-region.md#virtual-machines).

### Storage recovery

To protect your storage in the event of a region-wide service disruption:

- Use geo-redundant storage.
- Know where your storage is geo-replicated. This affects where you deploy other instances of your data that require regional affinity with your storage.
- Check data for consistency after failover and, if necessary, restore from a backup.

To learn more, see [Designing highly available applications using RA-GRS](/azure/storage/common/storage-designing-ha-apps-with-ragrs).

### SQL Database and SQL Server

Azure SQL Database provides two types of recovery:

- Use geo-restore to restore a database from a backup copy in another region. For more information, see [Recover an Azure SQL database using automated database backups](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-recovery-using-backups).
- Use active geo-replication to fail over to a secondary database. For more information, see [Creating and using active geo-replication](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-active-geo-replication).

For SQL Server running on VMs, see [High availability and disaster recovery for SQL Server in Azure Virtual Machines](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/sql/virtual-machines-windows-sql-high-availability-dr/).
