---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 620290ad-c04b-44d2-9b42-3d8b03c0dc5b
ms.assessment_question: You have implemented an internet edge strategy
---
## Define an internet edge strategy

Choose whether to use native cloud service provider controls or virtual network
appliances for internet edge security.

Internet edge traffic (sometimes referred to as 'North-South' traffic)
represents network connectivity between your assets in the cloud and the
Internet. Legacy workloads require protection from Internet endpoints because
they were built with the assumption that an internet firewall protected them
against these attacks. An Internet edge strategy is intended to mitigate as many
attacks from the internet as is reasonable to detect or block.

There are two primary choices that can provide Internet edge security controls
and monitoring:

-   Cloud Service Provider Native Controls ([Azure
    Firewall](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/azure-firewall/) + [Web
    Application Firewall
    (WAF)](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/application-gateway/waf-overview))

-   Partner Virtual Network Appliances (Firewall and WAF Vendors available in
    [Azure
    Marketplace](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/))

-   Cloud service provider native controls typically offer basic security that
    is good enough for common attacks, such as the OWASP Top 10.

-   In contrast, cloud service provider partner capabilities often provide much
    more advanced features that can protect against sophisticated (but often
    uncommon) attacks. Partner solutions consistently cost more than native
    controls. In addition, configuration of partner solutions can be very
    complex and more fragile than native controls because they do not integrate
    with cloud’s fabric controllers.

The decision to use native versus partner controls should be based on your
organization’s experience and requirements. If the features of the advanced
firewall solutions don’t provide sufficient return on investment, you may
consider using the native capabilities that are designed to be easy to configure
and scale.
