---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 66c191c5-fdd6-40e1-9a52-8f6e30deb2fd
ms.assessment_question: Automation
---
## Automation

To activate resources on demand, deploy solutions rapidly, minimize human error, and produce consistent and repeatable results, be sure to automate deployments and updates.

### Automate as many processes as possible

The most reliable deployment processes are automated and *idempotent* &mdash; that is, repeatable to produce the same results.

- To automate provisioning of Azure resources, you can use [Terraform](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/infrastructure-automation#terraform),
    [Ansible](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/infrastructure-automation#ansible), [Chef](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/infrastructure-automation#chef), [Puppet](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/infrastructure-automation#puppet),
    [Azure PowerShell](/powershell/azure/overview), [Azure CLI](/cli/azure), or [Azure Resource Manager templates](/azure/azure-resource-manager/template-deployment-overview).
- To configure VMs, you can use [cloud-init](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/infrastructure-automation#cloud-init) (for Linux VMs) or [Azure Automation State Configuration](/azure/automation/automation-dsc-overview) (DSC).
- To automate application deployment, you can use [Azure DevOps Services](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/infrastructure-automation#azure-devops-services), [Jenkins](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/infrastructure-automation#jenkins), or other CI/CD solutions.

As a best practice, create a repository of categorized automation scripts for quick access, documented with explanations of parameters and examples of script use. Keep this documentation in sync with your Azure deployments, and designate a primary person to manage the repository.

Automation scripts can also activate resources on demand for disaster recovery.

### Use code to provision and configure infrastructure

This practice, called *infrastructure as code,* may use a declarative approach or an imperative approach (or a combination of both).

- [Resource Manager templates](/azure/azure-resource-manager/template-deployment-overview) are an example of a declarative approach.
- [PowerShell](/powershell/azure/overview) scripts are an example of an imperative approach.

### Practice immutable infrastructure

In other words, don't modify infrastructure after it's deployed to production. After ad hoc changes have been applied, you might not know exactly what has changed, so it can be difficult to troubleshoot the system.
 
### Automate and test deployment and maintenance tasks

Distributed applications consist of multiple parts that must work together. Deployment should take advantage of proven mechanisms, such as scripts, that can update and validate configuration and automate the deployment process. Test all processes fully to ensure that errors don't cause additional downtime.

### Implement deployment security measures

All deployment tools must incorporate security restrictions to protect the deployed application. Define and enforce deployment policies carefully, and minimize the need for human intervention.
