---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 6811873a-1805-4c4e-90c5-2a5f5d799ea8
ms.assessment_question: You have an internet ingress/egress policy defined.
---
## Decide upon an internet ingress/egress policy

Choose to route traffic destined for the Internet through on-premises security
devices or allow Internet connectivity through cloud-based network security
devices.

Routing Internet traffic through on-premises network security devices is also
known as 'forced tunneling'. In a forced tunneling scenario, all connectivity to
the Internet is forced back to on-premises network security devices through a
cross-premises WAN link. The goal is to provide network security teams greater
security and visibility for Internet traffic. Even when your resources in the
cloud try to respond to incoming requests from the Internet, the responses will
be forced through on-premises network security devices.

Alternately, forced tunneling fits a *'datacenter expansion'* paradigm and can
work well for a quick proof of concept, but scales poorly because of the
increased traffic load, latency, and cost.

The recommended approach for production enterprise use is to allow cloud
resources to initiate and respond to Internet request directly through cloud
network security devices defined by your [internet edge strategy](#define-an-internet-edge-strategy).

The direct Internet approach fits the Nth datacenter paradigm (for example, Azure
datacenters are a natural part of my enterprise). This approach scales much
better for an enterprise deployment as it removes hops that add load, latency,
and cost.

We recommend that you avoid [forced
tunneling](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/vpn-gateway/vpn-gateway-about-forced-tunneling)
for the reasons noted above.
