---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 739b9d97-3a0e-49fa-b9ea-f6c324dffe51
ms.assessment_question: You are monitoring your cost versus the value obtained
---
## Cost versus value

Both TCO and ROI are key financial metrics that organizations may wish to quantify for their Cloud investment. In some cases, they are also looking to compare these metrics to existing on-premises equivalents.

It can be a challenge to get these figures accurate though, due to several reasons:

- On-premises TCO may not accurately account for ‘hidden' expenses, such as under-utilization of purchased hardware or network maintenance costs (labor & equipment failure).

- Cloud TCO may not accurately account for a drop in the organization's operational labor hours, due to the Cloud provider's infrastructure or platform management services being included in the cloud service pricing or the additional operational efficiences of cloud tools. This is especially true at a smaller scale, where the Cloud provider's services do not result in the ability for the organization to reduce IT labor head count.

- ROI may not account accurately for new organizational benefits due to cloud capabilities, e.g. improved collaboration, reduced time to service customers, fast scaling with minimal or no downtime.

- ROI may not account for organizational business process re-engineering, which may be necessary to fully embrace cloud benefits. In some cases, this re-engineering may not occur at all, leaving an organization in a state where they are using new technology in old ways, therefore stifling the full benefits of their cloud investment.

It is worth examining the TCO and ROI in full, exploring all costs and potential benefits. For migration projects, the [Microsoft Azure Total Cost of Ownership Calculator](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-au/pricing/tco/calculator/) may assist, as it pre-populates some common cost but allows you to modify the cost assumptions.
