---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 77316384-d88d-4f0c-85e1-950153e4ec47
ms.assessment_question: You are leveraging location appropriately
---
## Location

Azure has datacenters all over the world and each datacenter is placed within a zone within a region or just a region. Usage costs vary between locations that offer Azure products, services, and resources based on popularity, demand, and local infrastructure costs. Azure also offers differentiated cloud regions for specific security and compliance requirements.

For example, you might want to build your Azure solution by provisioning resources in locations that offer the lowest prices, but this would require transferring data between locations if dependent resources and their users are in different parts of the world. If there are meters tracking the volume of data that moves between the resources you provision, any potential savings you make from choosing the cheapest location could be offset by the additional cost of transferring data between those resources.

A location can be thought of as a region or a zone within a region in Azure. Cross regional traffic and cross-zonal traffic incur additional costs on the solution. The cross regional or cross zone additional costs does not apply to services labeled as global services in Azure such as Azure Active Directory. In addition, not all Azure services support zones and not all regions in Azure support zones. Choosing a region or a zone within a region for an Azure service is an opt-in activity. Before opting-in, consider how mission critical is the application to have footprint of its resources cross zones and/or cross regions. If it's non-mission critical or dev/test, consider keeping the solution and its dependencies in a single region or single zone to leverage the advantages of choosing the lower cost region.
