---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 78b95e10-acc0-4749-8f1f-efa8cfb5eb89
ms.assessment_question: You have a disaster recovery plan
---
## Disaster recovery plan

Start by creating a recovery plan. The plan is considered complete after it has been fully tested. Include the people, processes, and applications needed to restore functionality within the service-level agreement (SLA) you've defined for your customers.

Consider the following suggestions when creating and testing your disaster recovery plan:

- In your plan, include the process for contacting support and for escalating issues. This information will help to avoid prolonged downtime as you work out the recovery process for the first time.
- Evaluate the business impact of application failures.
- Choose a cross-region recovery architecture for mission-critical applications.
- Identify a specific owner of the disaster recovery plan, including automation and testing.
- Document the process, especially any manual steps.
- Automate the process as much as possible.
- Establish a backup strategy for all reference and transactional data, and test backup restoration regularly.
- Set up alerts for the stack of the Azure services consumed by your application.
- Train operations staff to execute the plan.
- Perform regular disaster simulations to validate and improve the plan.

If you're using [Azure Site Recovery](/azure/site-recovery/) to replicate virtual machines (VMs), create a fully automated recovery plan to fail over the entire application.
