---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 7f5f2838-cdd3-433e-8e73-1edd2ac47538
ms.assessment_question: You monitor identity risk
---
## Monitor identity risk

Monitor identity related risk events for warning on potentially compromised
identities and remediate those risks.

Most security incidents take place after an attacker initially gains access
using a stolen identity. These identities can often start with low privileges,
but the attackers then use that identity to traverse laterally and gain access
to more privileged identities. This repeats as needed until the attacker
controls access to the ultimate target data or systems.

Azure Active Directory uses adaptive machine learning algorithms, heuristics,
and known compromised credentials (username/password pairs) to detect suspicious
actions that are related to your user accounts. These username/password pairs
come from monitoring public and dark web sites (where attackers often dump
compromised passwords) and by working with security researchers, law
enforcement, Security teams at Microsoft, and others.

There are two places where you review reported risk events:

-   **Azure AD reporting** - Risk events are part of Azure AD's security
    reports. For more information, see the [users at risk security
    report](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/concept-user-at-risk) and
    the [risky sign-ins security
    report](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/concept-risky-sign-ins).

-   **Azure AD Identity Protection** - Risk events are also part of the
    reporting capabilities of [Azure Active Directory Identity
    Protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/active-directory-identityprotection).

In addition, you can use the [Identity Protection risk events API](https://developer.microsoft.com/graph/docs/api-reference/beta/resources/identityriskevent) to
gain programmatic access to security detections using Microsoft Graph.

Remediate these risks by manually addressing each reported account or by setting
up a [user risk policy](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/identity-protection/howto-user-risk-policy)
to require a password change for these high risk events.
