---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 89034945-14d8-4763-a116-e1e40d949f5f
ms.assessment_question: You have identified your subscription and service requirements.
---
## Determine subscription and service requirements

Choose the right subscription and service features for your app by working through these tasks:

- **Evaluate requirements against [Azure subscription and service limits](/azure/azure-subscription-service-limits/).** *Azure subscriptions* have limits on certain resource types, such as number of resource groups, cores, and storage accounts. If your application requirements exceed Azure subscription limits, create another Azure subscription and provision sufficient resources there. Individual Azure services have consumption limits &mdash; for example, limits on storage, throughput, number of connections, requests per second, and other metrics. Your application will fail if it attempts to use resources beyond these limits, resulting in service throttling and possible downtime for affected users. Depending on the specific service and your application requirements, you can often avoid these limits by scaling up (for example, choosing another pricing tier) or scaling out (such as adding new instances).
- **Determine how many storage accounts you need.** Azure allows a specific number of storage accounts per subscription. For more information, see [Azure subscription and service limits, quotas, and constraints](/azure/azure-subscription-service-limits/#storage-limits).
- **Select the right service tier for Azure SQL Database.** If your application uses Azure SQL Database, select the appropriate service tier. If the tier cannot handle your application's database transaction unit (DTU) requirements, your data use will be throttled. For more information on selecting the correct service plan, see [SQL Database options and performance: Understand what's available in each service tier](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-service-tiers/).
- **Provision sufficient request units (RUs) in Azure Cosmos DB**. With Azure Cosmos DB, you pay for the throughput you provision and the storage you consume on an hourly basis. The cost of all database operations is normalized as RUs, which abstracts the system resources such as CPU, IOPS, and memory. For more information, see [Request Units in Azure Cosmos DB](/azure/cosmos-db/request-units).
