---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 8e3f022b-c5a8-468d-b3ea-c4b55b26b0ac
ms.assessment_question: You have intentional subnet security.
---
## Design virtual network subnet security

Design virtual networks and subnets for growth.

Most organizations end up adding more resources to their networks than they
initially planned for. When this happens, IP addressing and subnetting schemes
need to be refactored to accommodate the extra resources. This is a
labor-intensive process. There is limited security value in creating a very
large number of small subnets and then trying to map network access controls
(such as security groups) to each of them.

We recommend that you plan your subnets based on common roles and functions that
use common protocols for those roles and functions. This allows you to add
resources to the subnet without needing to make changes to security groups that
enforce network level access controls.

Do not use *'all open*' rules for inbound and outbound traffic to and from
subnets. Use a *network 'least privilege*' approach and only allow relevant
protocols. This will decrease your overall network attack surface on the subnet.

All open rules (allowing inbound/outbound to and from 0.0.0.0-255.255.255.255)
provide a false sense of security since such a rule enforces no security at all.

However, the exception to this is if you want to use security groups only for
network logging. We do not recommend this, but it is an option if you have
another network access control solution in place.

[Azure Virtual Network subnets](/office365/enterprise/designing-networking-for-microsoft-azure-iaas) can be designed in this way.
