---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 95b6e2ca-d1e3-4f6d-aef0-75721f239743
ms.assessment_question: You use modern password protection offerings
---
## Use modern password protection offerings

Provide modern and effective protections for accounts that cannot go
passwordless ([Passwordless Or multi-factor authentication for admins](/azure/architecture/security/critical-impact-accounts#passwordless-or-multi-factor-authentication-for-admins)).

Legacy identity providers mostly checked to make sure passwords had a good mix
of character types and minimum length, but we have learned that these controls
in practice led to passwords with less entropy that could be cracked easier:

-   **Microsoft** -
    <https://www.microsoft.com/research/publication/password-guidance/>

-   **NIST** - https://pages.nist.gov/800-63-3/sp800-63b.html

Identity solutions today need to be able to respond to types of attacks that
didn't even exist one or two decades ago such as password sprays, breach replays
(also called *'credential stuffing*') that test username/password pairs from
other sites’ breaches, and phishing man-in-the-middle attacks. Cloud identity
providers are uniquely positioned to offer protection against these attacks.
Since they handle such large volumes of signons, they can apply better anomaly
detection and use a variety of data sources to both proactively notify companies
if their users’ passwords have been found in other breaches, as well as validate
that any given sign in appears legitimate and is not coming from an unexpected
or known-malicious host.

Additionally, synchronizing passwords to the cloud to support these checks also
add resiliency during some attacks. Customers affected by (Not)Petya attacks
were able to continue business operations when password hashes were synced to
Azure AD (vs. near zero communications and IT services for customers affected
organizations that had not synchronized passwords).

For Azure, enable modern protections in Azure AD by

1.  [Configure Azure AD Connect to synchronize password hashes](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/connect/active-directory-aadconnectsync-implement-password-hash-synchronization)

1.  Choose whether to automatically remediate these issues or manually remediate
    them based on a report:

    1.  **Automatic Enforcement -** Automatically remediate high risk passwords
        with Conditional Access [leveraging Azure AD Identity Protection risk
        assessments](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/identity-protection/overview)

    2.  **Report & Manually Remediate -** View reports and manually remediate
        accounts

        -   **Azure AD reporting** - Risk events are part of Azure AD's security
            reports. For more information, see the [users at risk security report](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/concept-user-at-risk)
            and the [risky sign-ins security report](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/reports-monitoring/concept-risky-sign-ins).

        -   **Azure AD Identity Protection** - Risk events are also part of the
            reporting capabilities of [Azure Active Directory Identity Protection](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/active-directory-identityprotection).

Use the Identity Protection risk events API to gain programmatic access to
security detections using Microsoft Graph.
