---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: 9cf72641-6859-4f7f-a0d1-6d7257526f78
ms.assessment_question: You are tracking which resource tier you are in and optimizing appropriately
---
## Resource tier

Costs are resource-specific, so the usage that a meter tracks and the number of meters associated with a resource depend on the resource type. The usage that a meter tracks correlates to several billable units. Those are charged to your account for each billing period, and the rate per billable unit depends on the resource type you are using. In some cases, there are also choices to be made about a resource type that impact the pricing, for example choosing to use a Standard HDD hard disk or a Premium SSD hard disk. Resource types will vary in features such as performance or availability, the design implications of which must be considered along with their cost. As a rule of thumb, start small for resources then scale the resource up as needed. For example, it's more cost effective to start with a small size in GB for a managed disk as you are incurring costs on the allocated storage vs. pay-per-GB model. Likewise, with ExpressRoute circuits start with a smaller bandwidth circuit and scale up as needed. In Azure it's generally easier to grow a service with little to no downtime vs. downscale a service, which usually requires deprovisioning or downtime.

The same applies to compute infrastructure, it's much easier to deploy an additional smaller instance of compute to work alongside a smaller unit in parallel than it is to restart an instance to scale it up, in general take the mentality of scale out – not up.
