---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/14/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: c0f0af98-7b8f-49c1-823d-a7626f4abed8
ms.assessment_question: Backup strategy defined
---
## Backup strategy

Many alternative strategies are available for implementing distributed compute across regions. These must be tailored to the specific business requirements and circumstances of the application. At a high level, the approaches can be divided into the following categories:

- **Redeploy on disaster**: In this approach, the application is redeployed from scratch at the time of disaster. This is appropriate for non-critical applications that don’t require a guaranteed recovery time.

- **Warm Spare (Active/Passive)**: A secondary hosted service is created in an alternate region, and roles are deployed to guarantee minimal capacity; however, the roles don’t receive production traffic. This approach is useful for applications that have not been designed to distribute traffic across regions.

- **Hot Spare (Active/Active)**: The application is designed to receive production load in multiple regions. The cloud services in each region might be configured for higher capacity than required for disaster recovery purposes. Alternatively, the cloud services might scale out as necessary at the time of a disaster and fail over. This approach requires substantial investment in application design, but it has significant benefits. These include low and guaranteed recovery time, continuous testing of all recovery locations, and efficient usage of capacity.

A complete discussion of distributed design is outside the scope of this document. For more information, see [Disaster Recovery and High Availability for Azure Applications](https://aka.ms/drtechguide).
