---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: c5861a02-2bd9-4257-b944-db5e9988f7d8
ms.assessment_question: You leverage cloud services instead of building custom security implementations
---
## Use Cloud services instead of custom implementations

Developers should use services available from your cloud provider for
well-established functions like databases, encryption, identity directory, and
authentication instead of writing custom versions of them.

These services provide better security, reliability, and efficiency because
cloud providers operate and secure them with dedicated teams with deep expertise
in those areas. Using these services also frees your developer resources from
reinventing the proverbial wheel so that they can focus development time on your
unique requirements for your business. This practice should be followed to avoid
risk during new application development as well as to reduce risk in existing
applications either during planned update cycle or with a security-focused
application update.

Several capabilities that should be prioritized first because of potential
security impact:

-   **Identity** – User directories and other authentication functions are
    complex to develop and critically important to security assurances. Avoid
    using homegrown authentication solutions and favor mature capabilities like
    Azure Active Directory ([Azure
    AD](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/)), [Azure AD
    B2B](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory/b2b/), [Azure
    AD B2C](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/active-directory-b2c/), or
    third-party solutions to authenticate and grant permission to users, partners,
    customers, applications, services, and other entities.

-   **Data Protection** – Developers should use established capabilities from
    cloud providers such as native encryption in cloud services to encrypt and
    protect data. The security world is littered with examples of failed
    attempts to protect data or passwords that didn’t stand up to real world
    attacks. If direct use of cryptography is required, developers should call
    well-established cryptographic algorithms and not attempt to invent their
    own.

-   **Key management** – Ideally use identity for authentication rather than
    directly handling keys (see [Prefer Identity Authentication over Keys](#prefer-identity-authentication-over-keys)).
    For situations where accessing services that require access to keys,
    leverage a key management service like [Azure Key
    Vault](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/key-vault/) or AWS [Key
    Management Service](https://aws.amazon.com/kms/) to manage and secure these
    keys rather than attempting to safely handle keys in application code. You
    can use [CredScan](https://secdevtools.azurewebsites.net/helpcredscan.html)
    to discover potentially exposed keys in your application code.

-   **Application Configurations** – Inconsistent configurations for
    applications can create security Risks. Azure App Configuration provides a
    service to centrally manage application settings and feature flags, which
    helps mitigate this risk.
