---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: c7584b1d-2f5c-46b4-8ec4-a849834c4967
ms.assessment_question: You have deprecated the use of legacy security technologies
---
## Discontinue legacy network security technology

Discontinue the use of signature-based Network Intrusion Detection/Network
Intrusion Prevention (NIDS/NIPS) Systems and Network Data Leakage/Loss
Prevention (DLP).

The major cloud service providers already filter for malformed packets and
common network layer attacks, so there’s no need for a NIDS/NIPS solution to
detect those. In addition, traditional NIDS/NIPS solutions are typically driven
by signature-based approaches (which are considered outdated) and are easily
evaded by attackers and typically produce a high rate of false positives. NIDS
and NIPS style of capabilities that

Network-based DLP is decreasingly effective at identifying both inadvertent and
deliberate data loss. The reason for this is that most modern protocols and
attackers use network-level encryption for inbound and outbound communications.
The only viable workaround for this is 'SSL-bridging' which provides an
'authorized man-in-the-middle' that terminates and then reestablishes encrypted
network connections. The SSL-bridging approach has fallen out of favor because
of the level of trust required for the partner running the solution and the
technologies that are being used.

Based on this rationale, we offer an all-up recommendation that you discontinue
use of these legacy network security technologies. However, if your
organizational experience is that these technologies have had a palpable impact
on preventing and detecting real attacks, you can consider porting them to your
cloud environment.
