---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: cb5b6fb3-ef56-490c-b8a9-42d66b71f1b9
ms.assessment_question: Load balancing is implemented
---
## Load balancing

To load balance traffic across regions requires a traffic management solution. Azure provides [Azure Traffic Manager](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/traffic-manager). You can also take advantage of third-party services that provide similar traffic management capabilities.

Proper load-balancing allows you to meet availability requirements and to minimize costs associated with availability.

- **Use load-balancing to distribute requests.** Load-balancing distributes your application's requests to healthy service instances by removing unhealthy instances from rotation. If your service uses Azure App Service or Azure Cloud Services, it's already load-balanced for you. However, if your application uses Azure VMs, you need to provision a load-balancer. For more information, see [What is Azure Load Balancer?](/azure/load-balancer/load-balancer-overview/)

  You can use Azure Load Balancer to:

  - Load-balance incoming Internet traffic to your VMs. This configuration is known as a [*public Load Balancer*](/azure/load-balancer/load-balancer-overview#publicloadbalancer).
  - Load-balance traffic across VMs inside a virtual network. You can also reach a Load Balancer front end from an on-premises network in a hybrid scenario. Both scenarios use a configuration that is known as an [*internal Load Balancer*](/azure/load-balancer/load-balancer-overview#internalloadbalancer).
  - Port forward traffic to an itemized port on specific VMs with inbound network address translation (NAT) rules.
  - Provide [outbound connectivity](/azure/load-balancer/load-balancer-outbound-connections) for VMs inside your virtual network by using a public Load Balancer.

- **Balance loads across regions with a traffic manager, such as Azure Traffic Manager.** To load-balance traffic across regions requires a traffic management solution, and Azure provides [Traffic Manager](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/traffic-manager/). You can also take advantage of third-party services that provide similar traffic-management capabilities.
