---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: e195f544-3bee-4e9d-9647-18b0b4db46f7
ms.assessment_question: High availability considerations
---
## Deploy to multiple regions and instances

An application that depends on a single instance of a service creates a single point of failure. To improve resiliency and scalability, provision multiple instances.

- For [Azure App Service](/azure/app-service/app-service-value-prop-what-is/), select an [App Service plan](/azure/app-service/azure-web-sites-web-hosting-plans-in-depth-overview/) that offers multiple instances.
- For [Azure Cloud Services](/azure/cloud-services/cloud-services-choose-me), configure each of your roles to use [multiple instances](/azure/cloud-services/cloud-services-choose-me/#scaling-and-management).
- For [Azure Virtual Machines](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-about/?toc=%2fazure%2fvirtual-machines%2fwindows%2ftoc.json), ensure that your architecture includes more than one VM and that each VM is included in an [availability set](/azure/virtual-machines/virtual-machines-windows-manage-availability/).

### Consider deploying across multiple regions

We recommend deploying all but the least critical applications and application services across multiple regions. If your application is deployed to a single region, in the rare event that the entire region becomes unavailable, the application will also be unavailable.

If you choose to deploy to a single region, consider preparing to redeploy to a secondary region as a response to an unexpected failure.

### Redeploy to a secondary region

If you run applications and databases in a single, primary region with no replication, your recovery strategy might be to redeploy to another region. This solution is affordable but most appropriate for non-critical applications that can tolerate longer recovery times.

If you choose this strategy, automate the redeployment process as much as possible and include redeployment scenarios in your disaster response testing.

To automate your redeployment process, consider using [Azure Site Recovery](/azure/site-recovery/).
