---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: e927b1b7-431f-4aac-9ac6-0d9a7693093d
ms.assessment_question: Choose appropriate service that matches requirements.
---
## Requirements

Any architecture planning starts with a careful enumeration of requirements. Architecting a Cloud solution is no different. As with any technology system, requirements are in place to ensure that the needs of the stakeholders are addressed and it is vital to remember that optimal design does not equal the lowest cost design.

Cost is another requirement lever that can be adjusted as other requirements dictate, resulting in a scenario of complex tradeoffs between the areas that architects are seeking to optimize for: such as security, scalability, resilience and operability. A solution architecture could perfectly address the challenges of these areas, however if the solution costs too much, the business will quickly look for alternate options to reduce cost. In some cases, the cost of not meeting expectations, internal or external, will outweigh the solution cost and the architecture is accepted, whereas in others the risk may be accepted in favor of a cheaper solution architecture.

It is also important to remember that designing the application to meet business requirements of scalability, resilience, recoverability and more, is still the responsibility of the customer, and is not handed off to the cloud vendor.

Communication between stakeholders is vital in these scenarios. The overall team must be clear on **and aligned on** the requirements. If not, then this potentially risks the success of the overall solution, not just from a cost perspective. If the requirements are not shared amongst all members, then there is a potential that the solution may not meet the intended business goals. For example, members of the development team believe that the resilience requirements of a monthly batch processing job are low, so design it to work as a single node without scaling capabilities. However, the architecture team had considered that component to be vital, and requires the ability to automatically scale out, and route requests to worker nodes. This lack of clarity potentially introduces a point of failure into the system, putting at risk the Service Level Agreement of the solution and would likely cause an increase in operational cost once the component is rearchitected.

### Compliance and regulatory requirements

In highly regulated industries, compliance requirements play an important part in architecture decisions. In the cloud, these decisions will usually have an impact on cost. For example, requiring that all data stores be encrypted can be achieved via the use of Azure Policy at no extra charge, however Azure regions built specifically for high compliance needs (e.g. Azure Germany or Azure Government (USA) have higher service costs.

Regulatory requirements can also dictate where data must or cannot reside, which in turn also impacts your data replication options for resiliency & redundancy. The ultimate location of your cloud solution is known as the landing zone, typically consisting of logical containers such as a subscription and resource group, where your cloud infrastructure components exist. The location of these resources (known as the Azure region) impacts the cost of these resources. Care should also be taken that cost tradeoffs such as locating resources in a cheaper region, are not then negated by the cost of network ingress & egress or by a lower application performance due to increased latency.

Understand your compliance and regulatory requirements and how both the cloud services and your architecture decisions support these, as both compliance and the effects of non-compliance remain the responsibility of your organization.

### Security requirements

- Authentication, MFA, conditional access, information protection, JIT/PIM (premium Azure AD features=\$)

### Availability, business continuity and disaster recovery requirements

- Availability requirements will have significant cost impact. For example, does the application have a given Service Level Agreement that it must meet?

- An application hosted in a single region may cost less than an application hosted across regions, due to replication costs or extra nodes being required. However, it may be that the overall Service Level Agreement, Recovery Time Objective (RTO) and Recovery Point Objective (RPO) drive towards more costly design choices that must support higher availability requirements.

If your service SLA, RTOs and RPOs allow for this, then it can be dramatically cheaper to consider options such as pre-building automation scripts and packages that would re-deploy the DR components of the solution from the ground-up in the event of a disaster or – simply resort to using Azure platform managed replication. Both options should yield cost savings against dual deployments as less cloud services need to be pre-deployed and managed, leading to less wastage. Which data/workloads

- RTO/RPO
- Availability sets
- Geo redundancy
- Azure backup
- Cost angle on these

You need to consider costings when defining your strategy for HA and DR and how the cost of downtime will impact your overall spend. In general - if the cost of HA exceeds the cost of downtime of the application you are probably over-engineering your HA strategy. If your cost of HA is significantly less than the cost of a reasonable period of downtime for your service (given the current service levels, RPO, RTO and 9's SLA, then you may well need to invest more.

In summary, if downtime is likely to cost you \$1 per hour, you probably don't need to spend a large amount of money on HA and can resort to recovery from your backup and DR processes in the event of a major issue. However, if your downtime is likely to cost \$1m per hour then you would more than likely be prepared to invest more in the HA and DR processing of the service, it's a 3 way trade-off between cost of service provision, your availability requirements and your organization's attitude to risk.

For strong alignment of business goals, start with your high-level requirements. In addition to traditional requirements, be sure to consider the unique opportunities afforded by cloud services. What are you aiming to achieve by building your architecture in the cloud?

Typical answers are:

- Taking advantage of features only available in the cloud, such as intelligent security systems, regions footprint, or resiliency features;

- Using the on-demand nature of the Cloud to meet peak or seasonal requirements, then releasing that cost investment when it is no longer needed;

- Consolidating physical systems;

- Retiring on-premises infrastructure;

- Reducing hardware or data center management costs;

- Increasing performance or processing capabilities, including services like big data and machine learning;

Meeting regulatory considerations, including taking advantage of certified infrastructure

Understand that requirements may vary over time as the solution is optimized once in the cloud. For example, one key differentiator of cloud architectures is the ability to scale dynamically, making it possible to realize cost savings through automatic scaling. Consider as part of the requirements for the components of the solution, the metrics that each resource exposes in Azure and build your alerts on baseline thresholds for each metric. This way the solution can be built to alert the admins on when the solution is utilizing its supporting cloud services at capacity thus allowing the admin to better fine tune the solution's resources to target SKUs based on current load. Over time, the solution can be optimized to auto-heal itself when alerts are triggered. Additional alerts can be set on allowed budgets for the different solutions either at the resource group or management groups scopes. This way, both cloud services performance and budget requirements can meet at a happy medium via alerting on metrics and budgets.
