---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: eb567f88-ce22-429e-a968-c2f040a5e9dd
ms.assessment_question: You prioritize security best practices
---
## Prioritize security best practices

Security best practices are ideally applied proactively and completely to all
systems as you build your cloud program, but this isn’t reality for most
enterprise organizations. Business goals, project constraints, and other factors
often cause organizations to balance security risk against other risks and apply
a subset of best practices at any given point.

We recommend applying as many as of the best practices as early as possible, and
then working to retrofit any gaps over time as you mature your security program.
We recommend evaluating the following considerations when prioritizing which to
follow first:

-   **High business impact and highly exposed systems –** These include systems
    with direct intrinsic value as well as the systems that provide attackers a
    path to them. For more information, see [Identify and classify business critical applications](/azure/architecture/security/applications-services#identify-and-classify-business-critical-applications).

-   **Easiest to implement Mitigations**– Identify quick wins by prioritizing
    the best practices, which your organization can execute quickly because you
    already have the required skills, tools, and knowledge to do it (for example,
    implementing a Web App Firewall (WAF) to protect a legacy application).  
    Be careful not to exclusively use (or overuse) this short-term
    prioritization method. Doing so can increase your risk by preventing your
    program from growing and leaving critical risks exposed for extended
    periods.

Microsoft has provided some prioritized lists of security initiatives to help
organizations start with these decisions based on our experience with threats
and mitigation initiatives in our own environments and across our customers. See
[Module
4a](https://docs.microsoft.com/office365/securitycompliance/ciso-workshop-module-4a)
of the [Microsoft CISO Workshop](https://aka.ms/cisoworkshop)
