---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: f4fea556-8c81-4e49-9715-39a7f8fcfca8
ms.assessment_question: Chose the right data store to match usage
---
## Choosing the right database

Not surprisingly, the overall performance and scale of an application is often heavily weighted on the choice and implementation of the database and the overall data tier of the application. This is because database reads and writes involve a network call and storage IO, both of which are expense operations. Choosing the right database service to store and retrieve data is therefore a critical decision and must be carefully considered to ensure overall application scalability. Azure has many first party database services that will fit most needs. In addition there are a series of 3rd party options that can be considered from Azure Marketplace.

The first decision to consider is whether the application storage requirements fit a relational design (SQL) vs a key-value/document/graph design (NO-SQL). The application must decide which storage model is best suited for the application requirements, and from there consider the various database options that fit those requirements. Some applications may have both a relational database and a NO-SQL database for different storage needs.

If a relational RDBMS is considered optimal, Azure has a series of PaaS options where the hosting and operations of the database are run for the customer by the service. In particular Azure SQL Database has many different options spanning a single database needs and instances that host multiple databases (Azure SQL Database Managed Instance). The suite of offerings span requirements crossing performance, scale, size, resiliency, disaster recovery, and migration compatibility. For the full set of Azure PaaS relational database offerings, see the below.  

Azure SQL Database <https://azure.microsoft.com/services/sql-database>
Azure Database for MySQL <https://azure.microsoft.com/services/mysql>
Azure Database for PostgreSQL <https://azure.microsoft.com/services/postgresql>
Azure Database for MariaDB <https://azure.microsoft.com/services/mariadb>

If the application requirements fall into a format that better fits a key/value format or document storage (i.e JSON, XML, YAML, etc), a NO-SQL should be considered as first option for performance, scale, and cost savings.

For key/value storage needs, Azure provides two managed services that optimize for this scenario. Azure Cosmos DB <https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cosmos-db> and Azure Cache for Redis <https://azure.microsoft.com/services/cache>. For document and graph databases, Cosmos DB is a highly recommended first party service offering extreme scale and performance.
