---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: f5b436a2-aad6-43b7-9d6e-563713263d7d
ms.assessment_question: Using queues
---
## Queuing and batching requests

A variant to asynchronous programming discussed above, queuing services have long been used as a scalable mechanism to hand off processing work to a service. Called the Load Levelling pattern, highly scalable queuing services are natively supported in Azure. The queue is a storage buffer that sits between the caller and the processing service, takes requests, stores and queues the request, and provides services around the reliable delivery and management of the queued data. Queuing services have been in use for years with the likes of MSMQ (Microsoft Message Queue), MQSeries, and others; and cloud native  variants of queuing services have been part of Azure since its inception.

Using a queue is often the best way to hand off work to a processor service. The processor service receives work by listening on a queue and dequeuing messages. If items to be processed enter too quickly, the queuing service will simply keep them in the queue until the processing service has available resources and asks for a new work item (message). By leveraging the dynamic nature of Azure Functions, the processor service can easily auto-scale on demand as the queue builds up to meet the intake pressure. Developing processor logic with Azure Functions to run task logic from a queue is a very common, scalable, and cost effective way to using queuing between a client and a processor.  

Azure provides a few native first-party queueing services with Azure Storage Queues (simple queuing service based on Azure Storage) and Azure Service Bus (message broker service supporting transactions and reduced latency). Many other 3rd party options are also available through Marketplace. Read more about using Azure for Load Leveling here. <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/architecture/patterns/queue-based-load-leveling>
