---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: f60a846f-90af-4d4c-9873-39da78d6f678
ms.assessment_question: You monitor your cloud costs and respond to alerts.
---
## Responding to cost alerts

In the Implementation section, you established your cost budget amounts, time periods and email alerts. Like any systems monitoring, this may need refining over time. So what happens when one of those alerts lands in your Inbox?

First, check the current consumption data. Budget alerts do not fire in real time and there may be a delay (up to 8 hrs) between this alert and your current incurred cost actuals. Is there any significant difference between the alert level and what you're seeing now?

Then you'll need to gather the appropriate people to discuss the cost trend, possible causes and any required action. That is likely to include people like application owners, who should be clearly identifiable through appropriate resource tagging. Who else do you need to involve (for example, business department owners) to provide the bigger picture of why a budget limit has nearly been reached? Remember this isn't just a systems question – it may also involve taking into account recent business activities which have been unexpectedly high.

And finally, you'll need to reach an agreement on any action that is required, either short term or long term. Do you need to temporarily increase the budget alert threshold? Will you diarise to reduce it again for the next billing period or does it need to remain at a new, higher level? Who needs to sign off that increase in spend? Who will make the business decision that the increased budget it justified, for the business value it delivers or the demand it meets?

Were the costs due to the creation or overrunning of unnecessary or expensive resources? Do you need to implement additional Azure Policy controls to prevent this in the future, or add automation to ensure scheduled virtual machine shutdowns?
