---
ms.author: dastanfo
author: david-stanford
ms.date: 10/16/2019
ms.topic: article
ms.service: architecture-center
ms.subservice: cloud-design-principles
ms.uid: f7d4b058-15d1-42f5-9ee2-362b3b68ee0d
ms.assessment_question: Databases are replicated geographically when appropriate
---
## Distribute data geographically

### SQL Database

Azure SQL Database provides two types of recovery: geo-restore and active geo-replication.

#### Geo-restore

[Geo-restore](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-recovery-using-backups/#geo-restore) is also available with Basic, Standard, and Premium databases. It provides the default recovery option when the database is unavailable because of an incident in the region where your database is hosted. Similar to point-in-time restore, geo-restore relies on database backups in geo-redundant Azure storage. It restores from the geo-replicated backup copy, and therefore is resilient to the storage outages in the primary region. For more information, see [Restore an Azure SQL Database or failover to a secondary](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-disaster-recovery).

#### Active geo-replication

[Active geo-replication](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-geo-replication-overview) is available for all database tiers. It’s designed for applications that have more aggressive recovery requirements than geo-restore can offer. Using active geo-replication, you can create up to four readable secondaries on servers in different regions. You can initiate failover to any of the secondaries. In addition, active geo-replication can be used to support the application upgrade or relocation scenarios, as well as load balancing for read-only workloads. For details, see [Configure active geo-replication for Azure SQL Database and initiate failover](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-geo-replication-portal). Refer to [Designing globally available services using Azure SQL Database](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-designing-cloud-solutions-for-disaster-recovery) and [Managing rolling upgrades of cloud applications by using SQL Database active geo-replication](/azure/sql-database/sql-database-manage-application-rolling-upgrade) for details on how to design and implement applications and applications upgrade without downtime.

### SQL Server on Azure Virtual Machines

A variety of options are available for recovery and high availability for SQL Server 2012 (and later) running in Azure Virtual Machines. For more information, see [High availability and disaster recovery for SQL Server in Azure Virtual Machines](/azure/virtual-machines/windows/sql/virtual-machines-windows-sql-high-availability-dr).
