This hub-spoke architecture provides an alternate solution to the
reference architectures [hub-spoke network topology in
Azure](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/hub-spoke)
and [implement a secure hybrid
network](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/dmz/secure-vnet-dmz?tabs=portal).

The *hub* is a virtual network in Azure that acts as a central point of
connectivity to your on-premises network. The *spokes* are virtual networks that
peer with the hub and can be used to isolate workloads. Traffic flows between
the on-premises data center(s) and the hub through an ExpressRoute or VPN
gateway connection. The main differentiator of this approach is the use of
[Azure Virtual WAN](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-wan/)
(VWAN) to replace hubs as a managed service.

This architecture includes the benefits of standard hub-spoke network
topology and introduces new benefits:

-   **Less operational overhead** by replacing existing hubs with a fully
    managed VWAN service.

-   **Cost savings** by using a managed service and removing the necessity of
    network virtual appliance.

-   **Improved security** by introducing centrally managed secured Hubs with
    Azure Firewall and VWAN to minimize security risks related to
    misconfiguration.

-   **Separation of concerns** between central IT (SecOps, InfraOps) and
    workloads (DevOps).

## Potential use cases

Typical uses for this architecture include cases in which:

-   Connectivity among workloads requires central control and access to shared
    services.

-   An enterprise requires central control over security aspects, such as a
    firewall, and requires segregated management for the workloads in each
    spoke.

## Architecture

![Hub-spoke reference architecture infographic](media/hub-spoke-vwan-architecture-001.png)

The architecture consists of:

-   **On-premises network**. A private local area network (LAN) running within
    an organization.

-   **VPN device**. A device or service that provides external connectivity to
    the on-premises network.

-   **VPN virtual network gateway or ExpressRoute gateway**. The virtual network
    gateway enables the virtual network to connect to the VPN device, or
    [ExpressRoute](/azure/expressroute/expressroute-introduction)
    circuit, used for connectivity with your on-premises network.

-   **Virtual WAN hub**. The [Virtual
    WAN](/azure/virtual-wan/virtual-wan-about)
    is used as the hub in the hub-spoke topology. The hub is the central point
    of connectivity to your on-premises network, and a place to host services
    that can be consumed by the different workloads hosted in the spoke virtual
    networks.

-   **Secured virtual hub**. A Virtual WAN hub with associated security and
    routing policies configured by Azure Firewall Manager. A secured virtual hub
    comes with a built-in routing so there is no need to configure user-defined
    routes.

-   **Gateway subnet**. The virtual network gateways are held in the same
    subnet.

-   **Spoke virtual networks**. One or more virtual networks that are used as
    spokes in the hub-spoke topology. Spokes can be used to isolate workloads in
    their own virtual networks and are managed separately from other spokes.
    Each workload might include multiple tiers, with multiple subnets connected
    through Azure load balancers.

-   **Virtual network peering**. Two virtual networks can be connected using a
    VNet peering connection. Peering connections are nontransitive, low-latency
    connections between virtual networks. Once peered, virtual networks exchange
    traffic by using the Azure backbone, without the need for a router. In a
    hub-spoke network topology, you use virtual network peering to connect the
    hub to each spoke. Azure Virtual WAN enables transitivity among hubs, which
    is not possible solely using peering.

### Components

* [Azure Virtual Network](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-network/)
* [Azure Virtual WAN](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-wan/)
* [Azure VPN Gateway](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/vpn-gateway/)
* [Azure ExpressRoute](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/expressroute/)
* [Azure Firewall](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/azure-firewall/)

### Alternatives

A hub-spoke architecture can be achieved two ways: a customer-managed hub
infrastructure, or a Microsoft-managed hub infrastructure. In either case,
spokes are connected to the hub using virtual network peering.

### Recommendations

The following recommendations apply to most scenarios. Follow them unless you
have a specific requirement that overrides them.

### Resource groups

The hub and each spoke can be implemented in different resource groups, and,
even better, in different subscriptions. When you peer virtual networks in
different subscriptions, both subscriptions can be associated to the same or a
different Azure Active Directory tenant. This allows for a decentralized
management of each workload, while sharing services maintained in the hub.

### Virtual WAN

Create a Standard Virtual WAN if you have a requirement for any of the
following:

-   Scaling for higher throughputs

-   Private Connectivity (requires Premium Circuit in Global Reach location)

-   ExpressRoute VPN Interconnect

-   Integrated monitoring with [Azure
    Monitor](/azure/virtual-wan/azure-monitor-insights)
    (Metrics and Resource Health)

Standard Virtual WANs are by default connected in a full mesh. Standard Virtual
WAN supports any-to-any connectivity (Site-to-Site VPN, VNet, ExpressRoute,
Point-to-site endpoints) in a single hub as well as across hubs. Basic virtual
WAN supports only Site-to-Site VPN connectivity, branch-to-branch connectivity,
and branch-to-VNet connectivity in a **single hub**.

### Virtual WAN Hub

A virtual hub is a Microsoft-managed virtual network. The hub contains various
service endpoints to enable connectivity. The hub is the core of your network in
a region. There can only be one hub per Azure region. When you create a hub
using the Azure portal, it creates a virtual hub VNet and a virtual hub VPN gateway.
A Virtual WAN Hub requires an address range minimum of /24. This IP address
space will be used for reserving a subnet for gateway and other components.

### Secured virtual hub

A virtual hub can be created as a secured virtual hub or converted to a secure
one anytime after creation. For additional information, see [Secure your virtual
hub using Azure Firewall
Manager](/azure/firewall-manager/secure-cloud-network).

### GatewaySubnet

For more information about setting up the gateway, see the following reference
architectures, depending on your connection type:

-   [Hybrid network using
    ExpressRoute](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/expressroute)

-   [Hybrid network using a VPN
    Gateway](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/vpn)

For greater availability, you can use ExpressRoute plus a VPN for failover. See
[Connect an on-premises network to Azure using ExpressRoute with VPN
failover](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/expressroute-vpn-failover).

A hub-spoke topology cannot be used without a gateway, even if you don't need
connectivity with your on-premises network.

### Virtual network peering

Virtual network peering is a nontransitive relationship between two virtual
networks. However, Azure Virtual WAN allows spokes to connect with each other
without having a dedicated peering among them.

However, if you have several spokes that need to connect with each other, you
will run out of possible peering connections very quickly due to the limitation
on the number of virtual network peerings per virtual network. (For more
information, see [Networking
limits](/azure/azure-resource-manager/management/azure-subscription-service-limits#networking-limits).)
In this scenario, Azure VWAN will solve this problem with its out-of-box
functionality. For additional information, see [Global transit network
architecture and Virtual
WAN](/azure/virtual-wan/virtual-wan-global-transit-network-architecture).

You can also configure spokes to use the hub gateway to communicate with remote
networks. To allow gateway traffic to flow from spoke to hub, and connect to
remote networks, you must:

-   Configure the peering connection in the hub to **allow gateway transit**.

-   Configure the peering connection in each spoke to **use remote gateways**.

-   Configure all peering connections to **allow forwarded traffic**.

For additional information, see [Choose between virtual network peering and VPN
gateways](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/vnet-peering)*.*

## Considerations

### Operations

Azure VWAN is a managed service provided by Microsoft. From a technology
standpoint, it is not completely different from a customer-managed hub
infrastructure. Azure Virtual WAN simplifies overall network architecture by
offering a mesh network topology with transitive network connectivity among
spokes. Monitoring of Azure VWAN can be achieved using Azure Monitor.
Site-to-site configuration and connectivity between on-premises networks and
Azure can be fully automated.

### Reliability

Azure Virtual WAN handles routing, which helps to optimize network latency among
spokes as well as assure predictability of latency. Azure Virtual WAN also
provides reliable connectivity among different Azure regions for the workloads
spanning multiple regions. With this setup, end-to-end flow within Azure becomes
more visible.

### Performance

With the help of Azure Virtual WAN, lower latency among spokes and across
regions can be achieved. Azure Virtual WAN enables you to scale up to 20Gbps
aggregate throughput.

### Scalability

Azure Virtual WAN provides a full mesh connectivity among spokes by preserving
the ability to restrict traffic based on needs. With this architecture it is
possible to have large-scale site-to-site performance. Moreover, you can create
a global transit network architecture by enabling any-to-any connectivity
between globally distributed sets of cloud workloads.

### Security

Hubs in Azure VWAN can be converted to secure HUBs by leveraging Azure Firewall.
User-defined routes (UDRs) can still be leveraged in the same way to achieve
network isolation. Azure VWAN enables encryption of traffic between the
on-premises networks and Azure virtual networks over ExpressRoute.

### Spoke connectivity and shared services

Connectivity among spokes is already achieved using Azure Virtual WAN. However,
using UDRs in the spoke traffic is useful to isolate virtual networks. Any
shared service can also be hosted on the same Virtual WAN as a spoke.

### Virtual network peering - Hub connection

Virtual network peering is a nontransitive relationship between two virtual
networks. While using Azure Virtual WAN, virtual network peering is managed by
Microsoft. Each connection added to a hub will also configure virtual network
peering. With the help Virtual WAN, all spokes will have a transitive
relationship.

## Pricing

A customer-managed hub infrastructure introduces management cost to underlying
Azure resources. To achieve a transitive connectivity with a predictable
latency, you must have a Network Virtual Appliance (NVA) or Azure Firewall
deployed in each hub. Using Azure Firewall with either choice will lower the
cost compared to an NVA. Azure Firewall costs are the same for both options.
There is an extra cost for Azure Virtual WAN; however, it is much less costly
than managing your own hub infrastructure.

For more information, see [Virtual WAN
pricing](https://azure.microsoft.com/pricing/details/virtual-wan/).

## Next steps

Learn more:

-   [Hub-spoke network topology in
    Azure](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/hub-spoke)

-   [Design a hybrid Domain Name System solution with
    Azure](/azure/architecture/hybrid/hybrid-dns-infra)

-   [Implement a secure hybrid
    network](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/dmz/secure-vnet-dmz)

-   [What is Azure
    ExpressRoute?](/azure/expressroute/expressroute-introduction)

-   [Connect an on-premises network to Azure using
    ExpressRoute](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/expressroute-vpn-failover)

-   [Firewall and Application Gateway for virtual
    networks](/azure/architecture/example-scenario/gateway/firewall-application-gateway)

-   [Extend an on-premises network using
    VPN](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/vpn)

-   [Secure and govern workloads with network level
    segmentation](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/hybrid-networking/network-level-segmentation)

## Related resources

-   [Strengthen your security posture with
    Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/overview/security/)

-   [Virtual Network](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-network/)

-   [Azure
    ExpressRoute](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/expressroute/)

-   [VPN Gateway](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/vpn-gateway/)

-   [Azure
    Firewall](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/azure-firewall/)
