Skytap on Azure simplifies cloud migration for applications that run on IBM
Power Systems. This example illustrates a migration of AIX logical partitions
(LPARs) to Skytap on Azure and is based on best practices from recent customer
experiences. A web app on Microsoft Azure gives users a modern interface for the
resources running in LPARs on Skytap on Azure.

Since its introduction in 1986, the AIX operating system has been a top choice
for large, mission-critical applications. AIX was designed for virtualization
from the ground up using multiple LPARs that run in isolation on a given IBM
Power System server. Until now, your choice was to rearchitect applications to
move them to the cloud or bear the expense of maintaining them on-premises or in
a co-located facility.

Skytap on Azure is dedicated hardware that provides a native IBM Power9
infrastructure with the AIX operating system. Full, cloud-based backup and
recovery is provided with Azure Storage. You don’t need to refactor or
rearchitect applications to run them in Skytap on Azure, and the way you manage
existing IBM Power applications on-premises changes very little.

After migration, you can start taking advantage of native Azure services to
modernize applications, if desired, or continue to run systems on AIX. Either
way, you immediately gain the resilience, flexibility, high availability, and
scalability of Azure.

## Potential use cases

-   Start an easy, self-service lift-and-shift of AIX workloads to Skytap on
    Azure.

-   Improve business continuity with cost-effective Azure solutions for backup
    and disaster recovery.

-   Add scale by rapidly deploying AIX LPARs on demand.

-   Accelerate DevOps and increase your test coverage using on-demand resources.

-   Create virtual labs using Skytap on Azure templates and environments, so you
    can easily demo AIX applications to customers and users.

## Architecture

![Infographic of a self-service lift-and-shift of AIX workloads to Skytap on Azure](media/aix-skytap-architecture-800.png)

 [View a larger version of the image](media/aix-skytap-architecture-large.png)

The numbers in the diagram correspond to the following data flow.

1.  A user on-premises uses a web browser to connect to Azure through [Azure
    ExpressRoute](/azure/expressroute/expressroute-introduction),
    which creates a private connection. This web-based app provides a modern
    interface for the services that run on the AIX LPARs in Skytap on Azure.

2.  Azure Data Box Gateway is deployed on-premises next to the datacenter’s
    existing AIX infrastructure, which includes an AIX Network Installation
    Management (NIM) server. Data Box Gateway loads the data and completes the
    system restoration on Azure. AIX backups run using the operating system’s
    native **mksyb** and **savevg** commands.

3.  Files that are backed up to Data Box Gateway are migrated to the
    organization’s Azure Blob Storage account through Azure Private Link, an
    endpoint for privately accessing Azure services.

4.  In the Skytap on Azure environment, the NIM server running Unix is used to
    restore the base AIX operating system to the LPARs in Skytap on Azure.

5.  The AIX LPAR is rebooted. Any data volume groups are restored through the
    Data Box Gateway via the Network File System (NFS) protocol. This process is
    repeated for each LPAR to be restored.

### Components

The architecture uses these components:

-   [Skytap on
    Azure](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/apps/skytapinc.skytap-on-azure-main1?tab=overview)
    is a service that runs IBM Power and x86 traditional workloads on hardware
    in Azure datacenters. Organizations that run applications on IBM Power–based
    AIX or Linux operating systems can migrate them to Azure with little upfront
    effort.

-   [Azure Virtual
    Machine](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-machines/) instances
    provide on-demand, scalable computing power. A virtual machine (VM) gives
    you the flexibility of virtualization without having to buy and maintain the
    physical hardware that runs it.

-   [Azure Virtual
    Network](/azure/virtual-network/virtual-networks-overview)
    is the fundamental building block for your private network in Azure. As a
    software defined network, a virtual network (VNet) provides an isolated
    environment for VMs and other Azure resources to communicate with each
    other, the internet, and on-premises networks.

-   [Azure Private
    Link](/azure/private-link/private-link-overview)
    creates your own private link service in your virtual network so the web
    client can consume resources from Skytap on Azure.

-   [Azure Blob
    Storage](/azure/storage/blobs/storage-blobs-introduction)
    is an object storage solution designed for storing massive amounts of
    unstructured data, such as text and binary data.

-   [Azure
    ExpressRoute](/azure/expressroute/expressroute-introduction)
    extends your on-premises networks to Microsoft cloud services, including
    Azure and Office 365, over a private connection facilitated by a
    connectivity provider.

-   [Azure Data Box
    Gateway](/azure/databox-gateway/data-box-gateway-overview)
    is a virtual device that you install on-premises. You write data to it using
    the NFS and Server Message Block (SMB) protocols, and Data Box Gateway sends
    the data to Azure.

### Alternatives

-   For access to the AIX instances running in Skytap on Azure, you can connect
    over a virtual private network (VPN) or the internet. For example, you can
    use SSH (Secure Shell) to access your AIX systems on Azure.

-   To maximize security and minimize the number of open ports, you can use VMs
    as bastion hosts for administrative access to the LPARs. The bastion host
    runs within the VNet on Azure.

-   To simplify user access, you can build modern front ends and apps on Azure
    for the AIX instances running in Skytap on Azure while continuing to run
    critical components or systems of record (SOR) on AIX.

## Considerations

### Availability

Skytap on Azure has high reliability built on IBM Power9 Systems backed by SSD
RAID 6+1 storage and 10 Gb/sec backplane networking.

Skytap on Azure is supported by a service-level agreement (SLA) of 99.95 percent
availability.

### Performance

Skytap on Azure provides high performance and efficiency that support demanding
workloads up to 16 vCPUs and 512 GB of memory, while providing the benefits of
cloud scale. With capacity on demand and pay-as-you-go pricing, you save the
expense of adding hardware on premises to support higher demands. You can use
smaller LPARs instead of a few large ones and configure resources as needed.

Skytap on Azure promotes operational excellence through its native support for
AIX on IBM Power9 systems that are hosted within Azure datacenters and managed
by Microsoft.

### Scalability

One of the advantages of an Azure–based solution is the ability to scale out.
Scaling makes nearly limitless compute capacity available to an application.
Azure supports multiple methods to scale out compute power, such as [virtual
machine scale
sets](/azure/virtual-machine-scale-sets/overview) and
[load
balancing](/azure/load-balancer/load-balancer-overview)
across a cluster. Other platform as a service (PaaS) options scale compute
resources dynamically. In addition, applications on Azure can also use
[Kubernetes
clusters](/azure/aks/concepts-clusters-workloads)
as compute services for specified resources.

To scale up on Azure, choose a [larger VM
size](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/virtual-machines/) for your workload.

### Security

Skytap on Azure meets industry cloud security requirements, including System and
Organization Controls for Service Organizations 2 (SOC 2) and SOC 3 attestations
and compliance with ISO 27001 and PCI DSS 3.2.

## Deploy this scenario

To get started running AIX applications on Azure, check out the [Skytap on
Azure](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/apps/skytapinc.skytap-on-azure-main1?tab=overview)
template in Azure Marketplace.

## Pricing

Running your AIX-based workloads in Skytap on Azure helps optimize costs
compared to on-premises deployments. The consumption-based usage plans let you
deploy AIX LPARs only as needed and scale them on demand to meet the needs of
your workloads.

See more pricing information on the [Plans +
Pricing](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/apps/skytapinc.skytap-on-azure-main1?tab=PlansAndPrice)
tab of Skytap on Azure in Azure Marketplace.

## Next steps

To learn more about Skytap on Azure, please contact <legacy2azure@microsoft.com>
or check out the following resources:

-   See the [Cloud Migration for Apps Running IBM
    Power](https://techcommunity.microsoft.com/t5/video-hub/skytap-on-azure-cloud-migration-for-apps-running-ibm-power/m-p/1693588)
    demo.

-   Learn how to [accelerate your cloud strategy with Skytap on
    Azure](https://azure.microsoft.com/blog/accelerate-your-cloud-strategy-with-skytap-on-azure/).

-   Explore the [Skytap on
    Azure](https://azuremarketplace.microsoft.com/marketplace/apps/skytapinc.skytap-on-azure-main1?tab=overview)
    template on Azure Marketplace.

## Related resources

-   [Skytap documentation](https://help.skytap.com/)

-   [Mainframe file replication and sync on
    Azure](/azure/architecture/solution-ideas/articles/mainframe-azure-file-replication)

-   [Modernize mainframe & midrange
    data](/azure/architecture/reference-architectures/migration/modernize-mainframe-data-to-azure)
