docs/reference-architectures/reliable-web-app/java/plan-implementation-content.md, before:

The reliable web app pattern is a set of principles that helps developers successfully migrate web applications to the cloud. It provides implementation guidance built on the [Azure Well-Architected Framework](/azure/architecture/framework/). The pattern focuses on the minimal changes you need to make to ensure the success of your web app in the cloud.

This article shows you how to plan the implementation of the reliable web app pattern for Java. The companion article shows you how to [apply the pattern](apply-pattern.yml).

![Diagram showing GitHub icon.](../../../_images/github.png) There's also a [reference implementation](https://github.com/Azure/reliable-web-app-pattern-java#reliable-web-app-pattern-for-java) of the reliable web app pattern for Java that you can deploy. The reference implementation applies the reliable web app pattern to an employee-facing, line of business (LOB) web application.

## Architecture and pattern

The business context, existing web app, service level objective (SLO), and coding language determine (1) how you apply the reliable web app pattern and (2) the architecture of the web app. We applied the reliable web app pattern to the reference implementation. The following diagram shows the resulting architecture of the reference implementation.

[![Diagram showing the architecture of the reference implementation](images/java-architecture.png)](images/java-architecture.png)
*Download a [Visio file](https://arch-center.azureedge.net/reliable-web-app-java.vsdx) of this architecture. For the estimated cost, see:*

- [Production environment estimated cost](https://azure.com/e/c530c133f36c423e9774de286f7dd28a)
- [Non-production environment estimated cost](https://azure.com/e/48201e05118243e089ded6855839594a)

The following table lists the principles of the reliable web app pattern and how the reference implementation applied these principles.

| Reliable web app principles | Implementation for Java |
| --- | --- |
|▪ Low-cost, high-value updates<br>▪ Minimal code changes to:<ol>▫ Meet security best practices<br>▫ Apply reliability design patterns<br>▫ Improve operational excellence</ol>▪ Cost-optimized environment(s)<br>▪ Follow Azure Well-Architected Framework principles<br>▪ Business-driven service level objective |▪ Retry pattern <br> ▪ Circuit-breaker pattern <br>▪ Cache-aside pattern <br>▪ Right-size resource <br>▪ Managed identities <br>▪ Private endpoints <br>▪ Secrets management <br>▪ Repeatable infrastructure <br>▪ Telemetry, logging, monitoring |

## Business context

The implementation guidance mirrors the cloud journey of a fictional company, Proseware, Inc. Proseware wants to take their on-premises, line of business (LOB), web application to the cloud. It's a customized version of the open-source monolithic Airsonic web-based media streamer, but for the purposes of this scenario, we image that Proseware developed the application and owns all the code. Company leadership decided to expand their business into the EdTech application market. After their initial technical research, they concluded they could use their existing internal training platform as a starting point and modernize them into a B2C EdTech App. To expand its business into a highly competitive EdTech market, the on-premises infrastructure needs to provide a cost-efficient means to scale, and a migration to the cloud offers the most return on investment. The migration of their application should meet the increasing business demand with minimal investments in the existing monolithic app. Here are some short-term and long-term goals for the application.

| Short term goals | Long term goals |
| --- | --- |
| ▪ Apply low-cost, high-value code changes to the LOB web application. <br> ▪ Mature development team practices for cloud development and operations. <br> ▪ Create cost-optimized production and development environments. <br> ▪ Implement reliability and security best practices in the cloud. <br> ▪ Service-level objective of 99.86%.| ▪ Open the application directly to online customers through multiple web and mobile experiences. <br> ▪ Improve availability. <br> ▪ Reduce time required to deliver new features. <br> ▪ Independently scale different components of the system based on traffic.

## Web application starting point

The on-premises starting point is a monolithic Java web application running on an Apache Tomcat web server with a PostgreSQL database. It’s an employee-facing LOB training application. Proseware employees use the application to complete required HR training. The web application suffers from common legacy challenges, including extended timelines to build and ship new features and difficulty scaling different application components under higher load.

## Service level objective

A service level objective (SLO) for availability defines how available you want a web app to be for users. Proseware has a target SLO of 99.86% for availability. You need to define what it means to be available for your web application. For Proseware, the web app is available when employees can watch training videos 99.86% of the time. When you have a definition of available, list all the dependencies on the critical path of availability. Dependencies should include Azure services and third-party solutions.

For each dependency in the critical path, you need to assign an availability goal. Service Level Agreements (SLAs) from Azure provide a good starting point. SLAs don't factor in (1) downtime associated with the application code run on those services, (2) deployment and operations methodologies, or (3) architecture choices to connect the services. The availability metric you assign to a dependency shouldn't exceed the SLA.

For example, Proseware used Azure SLAs for Azure services. The following diagram illustrates Proseware's dependency list with availability goals for each dependency.

[![Diagram showing Proseware's dependencies on the critical path and the assigned availability metric for each dependency.](images/java-slo-dependecies.png)](images/java-slo-dependecies.png)

Finally, use the formulas for composite SLAs to estimate the composite availability of the dependencies on the critical path. This number should meet or exceed your SLO. For more information, see:

- [Composite SLA formula](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/business-metrics#composite-slas)
- [Multiregional SLA formula](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/business-metrics#slas-for-multiregion-deployments)

## Choose the right services

Choosing the right Azure services is an important part of the planning phase before moving your app to Azure. Understanding the level of performance and availability you need for your app will have an impact on the total cost to run your solution. You should start by defining a target SLO for your solution and use that information to determine which products and SKUs you should be using. We provide our decision process for each service in the solution. Our two main requirements were (1) having an SLA of 99.86% for the production environment and (2) handling an average load of 1,000 users daily.

### Application platform

[Azure App Service](/azure/app-service/overview) is an HTTP-based, managed service for hosting web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends. Azure has many viable[compute options](/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/compute-decision-tree). The web app uses Azure App Service because it meets the following requirements:

- **Broad Java support:** App Service supports Java Platform Standard Edition (SE), Apache Tomcat, and JBoss Enterprise Application Platform (EAP) web apps. You can deploy Maven plugins from the command line or in editors (IntelliJ, Eclipse, or Visual Studio Code).
- **High SLA:** It has a 99.95% uptime SLA and meets our requirements for the production environment.
- **Reduced management overhead:** It’s a fully managed hosting solution.
- **Containerization capability:** App Service works with private container image registries like Azure Container Registry. Proseware can use these to containerize the web app in the future.
- **Autoscaling:** The web app can rapidly scale up, down, in, and out based on user traffic.

Azure has a fully managed service specifically for Spring Boot apps, Azure Spring Apps. Proseware concluded that the Spring Apps platform introduces key hosting benefits but a came with an undesired larger operations disparity between their on-premises Tomcat servers than Azure App Service for the team's current level of cloud experience.

### Identity management

[Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)](/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis) is a cloud-based identity and access management service. It authenticates and authorizes users based on roles that integrate with the application. Azure AD provides the application with the following abilities:

- **Authentication and authorization:** The application needed to authenticate and authorize employees.
- **Scalable:** It scales to support larger scenarios.
- **User-identity control:** Employees can use their existing enterprise identity.
- **Support authorization protocols:** It supports OAuth 2.0 for managed identities and OpenID Connect for future B2C support.

### Database

[Azure Database for PostgreSQL](/postgresql/single-server/overview) is a fully managed database service that provides built-in high availability, automated maintenance for underlying hardware, operating system and database engine, data protection using automatic backups and point-in-time restore, enterprise grade security and industry-leading compliance to protect sensitive data at-rest and in-motion.

Azure Database for PostgreSQL includes single-server and Flexible Server options. We chose Flexible Server because it meets the following requirements:

- **Reliability:** we chose a single-zone high availability configuration, ideal for infrastructure redundancy with lower network latency. It provides high availability without the need to configure app redundancy across zones. Same-zone HA is available in all Azure regions where you can deploy Flexible Server and offers an uptime SLA of 99.95%.
- **Performance:** Flexible Server provides your apps with predictable performance and intelligent tuning to automatically improve your database's performance based on real usage data.
- **Reduced management overhead:** Flexible Server is a fully managed database-as-a-service offering.
- **Migration support:** Flexible Server supports database migration from on-premises Single Server PostgreSQL databases. Microsoft has a [preview migration tool](/azure/postgresql/migrate/concepts-single-to-flexible) to simplify the migration process.
- **Consistency with on-premises configurations:** Azure Database for PostgreSQL supports [many community versions of PostgreSQL](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-supported-versions), including the version that Proseware uses today.
- **Business continunity:** Flexible Server automatically creates [server backups](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-backup-restore) and stores them on zone redundant storage (ZRS) within the region. Backups can be used to restore your server to any point-in-time within the backup retention period.  The recovery point objective (RPO) offered by this solution is shorter, and therefore better, than Proseware's current solution.

### Application performance monitoring

Application Insights is a feature of Azure Monitor that provides extensible application performance management (APM) and monitoring for live web apps. We chose to incorporate Application Insights for the following reasons.

- **Anomaly detection:** It automatically detects performance anomalies.
- **Troubleshooting:** It helps diagnose issues in the running app.
- **Telemetry:** It collects information about how users are using the app and allows us to easily send custom events we want to track in our app.

Azure Monitor is a comprehensive suite of monitoring tools to collect data from a variety of Azure services. Review the following concepts to quickly come up to speed on its capabilities:

- [Application Monitoring for Azure App Service and Java](/azure/azure-monitor/app/azure-web-apps-java)
- [Smart detection in application insights](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/proactive-diagnostics)
- [Application Map: Triaging Distributed Applications](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-map?tabs=java)
- [Profile live App Service apps with Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/profiler/profiler)
- [Usage analysis with Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/usage-overview)
- [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started)
- [Application Insights Overview dashboard](/azure/azure-monitor/app/overview-dashboard)
- [Log queries in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-query-overview)

### Cache

[Azure Cache for Redis](/azure-cache-for-redis/cache-overview) is a managed in-memory data store based on the Redis software. The web app needed a cache that provided the following benefits:

- **Reduce management overhead:** It's a fully managed service.
- **Speed and volume:** It has high-data throughput and low latency reads for commonly accessed, slow changing data.
- **Diverse supportability:** It's a unified cache location for all instances of our web app to use.
- **Externalized:** The on-premises application servers performed VM-local caching. This setup didn't offload highly frequented data, and it couldn't invalidate data.
- **Enabling non-sticky sessions:** Externalizing session state supports non-sticky sessions.

### Content delivery network

[Azure Front Door](/azure/frontdoor/front-door-overview) sets up additional features such as Web Application Firewall and positions us to use a content delivery network to provide site acceleration as traffic to the web app increases. We chose Azure Front Door because it provides the following capabilities.

- **Traffic acceleration:** It uses anycast to reach the nearest Azure point of presence and find the fastest route to our web app.
- **Custom domains:** It supports custom domain names with flexible domain validation.
- **Health probes:** The application needed intelligent health probe monitoring. Azure Front Door then uses these responses from the probe to determine the "best" origin to route your client requests.
- **Monitoring support:** It supports built-in reports with an all-in-one dashboard for both Front Door and security patterns. You can configure alerts that integrate with Azure Monitor. It lets the application log each request and failed health probes.
- **DDoS protection:** It has built-in layer 3-4 DDoS protection.

### Web application firewall

[Azure Web Application Firewall](/azure/web-application-firewall/overview) provides centralized protection of your web applications from common exploits and vulnerabilities. It's built into Azure Front Door and prevents malicious attacks close to the attack sources before they enter your virtual network. Azure Web Application Firewall provided the following benefits.

- **Global protection:** It provides global web app protection without sacrificing performance.
- **Botnet protection:** The team can monitor and configure to address security concerns from botnets.
- **Parity with on-premises**: The service allowed us to maintain parity with our on-premises solution, which was running behind a web application firewall managed by IT.

### Secrets manager

[Azure Key Vault](/azure/key-vault/general/overview) provides centralized storage of application secrets to control their distribution. Proseware will use managed identities over secrets where possible, but there are situations where X.509 certificates, connection strings, and pre-shared secrets still need to be stored.  Key Vault was chosen because it provides:

- **Encryption:** It supports encryption at rest and in transit.
- **Supports managed identities:** The application services can use managed identities to access the secret store.
- **Monitoring and logging:** It facilitates audit access and generate alert us when stored secrets change.

### Object storage

Azure Files offers fully managed file shares in the cloud that are accessible via Server Message Block (SMB) protocol, Network File System (NFS) protocol, and Azure Files REST API. The app uses the filesystem to save uploaded training videos.  We used the Azure Files integration in App Service to mount an NFS share, which allows our Tomcat app server to seamlessly access the share. Azure Files is a good fit because it simplified the process of getting our app running on the cloud.

- **Replace existing file server:** Azure Files allows us to replace our existing file server without having to modify our code to use an alternative blob storage mechanism.
- **Fully managed:** Azure file shares allow us to maintain compatibility without needing to manage hardware or operating system for a file server.
- **Resiliency:** Azure Files has been built from the ground up to be always available.
- **Durability.** Azure files has zone-redundant storage to improve data redundancy and application resiliency. For more information, see [Data redundancy](/azure/storage/common/storage-redundancy#redundancy-in-the-primary-region) and [Zone-redundant storage](/azure/storage/common/storage-redundancy#zone-redundant-storage).

### Endpoint security

[Azure Private Link](/azure/private-link/private-link-overview) provides access to PaaS Services (such as, Azure Cache for Redis and Azure Database for PostgreSQL) over a private endpoint in your virtual network. Traffic between your virtual network and the service travels across the Microsoft backbone network. Azure Private DNS with Azure Private Link enables your solution to communicate securely with Azure services without application changes. The web app uses Azure Private Link for the following reasons:

- **Secure communication:** It lets the application privately access services on the Azure platform and reduces the network footprint of data stores to protect against data leakage.
- **Minimal effort:** The private endpoints support the web application platform and database platform the web app uses. Both platforms mirror existing on-premises setup for minimal change.

## Deploy the reference implementation

You can deploy the reference implementation by following the instructions in the [reliable web app pattern for Java repository](https://github.com/Azure/reliable-web-app-pattern-java#reliable-web-app-pattern-for-java). Follow the deployment guide to set up a local development environment and deploy the solution to Azure.

## Next step

You learned how to plan the implementation for the reliable web app pattern. The next step is to apply the reliable web app pattern.

>[!div class="nextstepaction"]
>[Apply the pattern](plan-implementation.yml)

Commit message:

how the RI should look

docs/reference-architectures/reliable-web-app/java/plan-implementation-content.md, after:

The reliable web app pattern is a set of principles that helps developers successfully migrate web applications to the cloud. It provides implementation guidance built on the [Azure Well-Architected Framework](/azure/architecture/framework/). The pattern focuses on the minimal changes you need to make to ensure the success of your web app in the cloud.

This article shows you how to plan the implementation of the reliable web app pattern for Java. The companion article shows you how to [apply the pattern](apply-pattern.yml).

![Diagram showing GitHub icon.](../../../_images/github.png) There's also a [reference implementation](https://github.com/Azure/reliable-web-app-pattern-java#reliable-web-app-pattern-for-java) of the reliable web app pattern for Java that you can deploy. The reference implementation applies the reliable web app pattern to an employee-facing, line of business (LOB) web application.

## Architecture and pattern

The business context, existing web app, service level objective (SLO), and coding language determine (1) how you apply the reliable web app pattern and (2) the architecture of the web app. We applied the reliable web app pattern to the reference implementation. The following diagram illustrates how the reference implementation should look in your environment.

[![Diagram showing the architecture of the reference implementation](images/java-architecture.png)](images/java-architecture.png)
*Download a [Visio file](https://arch-center.azureedge.net/reliable-web-app-java.vsdx) of this architecture. For the estimated cost, see:*

- [Production environment estimated cost](https://azure.com/e/c530c133f36c423e9774de286f7dd28a)
- [Non-production environment estimated cost](https://azure.com/e/48201e05118243e089ded6855839594a)

The following table lists the principles of the reliable web app pattern and how the reference implementation applied these principles.

| Reliable web app principles | Implementation for Java |
| --- | --- |
|▪ Low-cost, high-value updates<br>▪ Minimal code changes to:<ol>▫ Meet security best practices<br>▫ Apply reliability design patterns<br>▫ Improve operational excellence</ol>▪ Cost-optimized environment(s)<br>▪ Follow Azure Well-Architected Framework principles<br>▪ Business-driven service level objective |▪ Retry pattern <br> ▪ Circuit-breaker pattern <br>▪ Cache-aside pattern <br>▪ Right-size resource <br>▪ Managed identities <br>▪ Private endpoints <br>▪ Secrets management <br>▪ Repeatable infrastructure <br>▪ Telemetry, logging, monitoring |

## Business context

The implementation guidance mirrors the cloud journey of a fictional company, Proseware, Inc. Proseware wants to take their on-premises, line of business (LOB), web application to the cloud. It's a customized version of the open-source monolithic Airsonic web-based media streamer, but for the purposes of this scenario, we image that Proseware developed the application and owns all the code. Company leadership decided to expand their business into the EdTech application market. After their initial technical research, they concluded they could use their existing internal training platform as a starting point and modernize them into a B2C EdTech App. To expand its business into a highly competitive EdTech market, the on-premises infrastructure needs to provide a cost-efficient means to scale, and a migration to the cloud offers the most return on investment. The migration of their application should meet the increasing business demand with minimal investments in the existing monolithic app. Here are some short-term and long-term goals for the application.

| Short term goals | Long term goals |
| --- | --- |
| ▪ Apply low-cost, high-value code changes to the LOB web application. <br> ▪ Mature development team practices for cloud development and operations. <br> ▪ Create cost-optimized production and development environments. <br> ▪ Implement reliability and security best practices in the cloud. <br> ▪ Service-level objective of 99.86%.| ▪ Open the application directly to online customers through multiple web and mobile experiences. <br> ▪ Improve availability. <br> ▪ Reduce time required to deliver new features. <br> ▪ Independently scale different components of the system based on traffic.

## Web application starting point

The on-premises starting point is a monolithic Java web application running on an Apache Tomcat web server with a PostgreSQL database. It’s an employee-facing LOB training application. Proseware employees use the application to complete required HR training. The web application suffers from common legacy challenges, including extended timelines to build and ship new features and difficulty scaling different application components under higher load.

## Service level objective

A service level objective (SLO) for availability defines how available you want a web app to be for users. Proseware has a target SLO of 99.86% for availability. You need to define what it means to be available for your web application. For Proseware, the web app is available when employees can watch training videos 99.86% of the time. When you have a definition of available, list all the dependencies on the critical path of availability. Dependencies should include Azure services and third-party solutions.

For each dependency in the critical path, you need to assign an availability goal. Service Level Agreements (SLAs) from Azure provide a good starting point. SLAs don't factor in (1) downtime associated with the application code run on those services, (2) deployment and operations methodologies, or (3) architecture choices to connect the services. The availability metric you assign to a dependency shouldn't exceed the SLA.

For example, Proseware used Azure SLAs for Azure services. The following diagram illustrates Proseware's dependency list with availability goals for each dependency.

[![Diagram showing Proseware's dependencies on the critical path and the assigned availability metric for each dependency.](images/java-slo-dependecies.png)](images/java-slo-dependecies.png)

Finally, use the formulas for composite SLAs to estimate the composite availability of the dependencies on the critical path. This number should meet or exceed your SLO. For more information, see:

- [Composite SLA formula](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/business-metrics#composite-slas)
- [Multiregional SLA formula](/azure/architecture/framework/resiliency/business-metrics#slas-for-multiregion-deployments)

## Choose the right services

Choosing the right Azure services is an important part of the planning phase before moving your app to Azure. Understanding the level of performance and availability you need for your app will have an impact on the total cost to run your solution. You should start by defining a target SLO for your solution and use that information to determine which products and SKUs you should be using. We provide our decision process for each service in the solution. Our two main requirements were (1) having an SLA of 99.86% for the production environment and (2) handling an average load of 1,000 users daily.

### Application platform

[Azure App Service](/azure/app-service/overview) is an HTTP-based, managed service for hosting web applications, REST APIs, and mobile back ends. Azure has many viable[compute options](/azure/architecture/guide/technology-choices/compute-decision-tree). The web app uses Azure App Service because it meets the following requirements:

- **Broad Java support:** App Service supports Java Platform Standard Edition (SE), Apache Tomcat, and JBoss Enterprise Application Platform (EAP) web apps. You can deploy Maven plugins from the command line or in editors (IntelliJ, Eclipse, or Visual Studio Code).
- **High SLA:** It has a 99.95% uptime SLA and meets our requirements for the production environment.
- **Reduced management overhead:** It’s a fully managed hosting solution.
- **Containerization capability:** App Service works with private container image registries like Azure Container Registry. Proseware can use these to containerize the web app in the future.
- **Autoscaling:** The web app can rapidly scale up, down, in, and out based on user traffic.

Azure has a fully managed service specifically for Spring Boot apps, Azure Spring Apps. Proseware concluded that the Spring Apps platform introduces key hosting benefits but a came with an undesired larger operations disparity between their on-premises Tomcat servers than Azure App Service for the team's current level of cloud experience.

### Identity management

[Azure Active Directory (Azure AD)](/azure/active-directory/fundamentals/active-directory-whatis) is a cloud-based identity and access management service. It authenticates and authorizes users based on roles that integrate with the application. Azure AD provides the application with the following abilities:

- **Authentication and authorization:** The application needed to authenticate and authorize employees.
- **Scalable:** It scales to support larger scenarios.
- **User-identity control:** Employees can use their existing enterprise identity.
- **Support authorization protocols:** It supports OAuth 2.0 for managed identities and OpenID Connect for future B2C support.

### Database

[Azure Database for PostgreSQL](/postgresql/single-server/overview) is a fully managed database service that provides built-in high availability, automated maintenance for underlying hardware, operating system and database engine, data protection using automatic backups and point-in-time restore, enterprise grade security and industry-leading compliance to protect sensitive data at-rest and in-motion.

Azure Database for PostgreSQL includes single-server and Flexible Server options. We chose Flexible Server because it meets the following requirements:

- **Reliability:** we chose a single-zone high availability configuration, ideal for infrastructure redundancy with lower network latency. It provides high availability without the need to configure app redundancy across zones. Same-zone HA is available in all Azure regions where you can deploy Flexible Server and offers an uptime SLA of 99.95%.
- **Performance:** Flexible Server provides your apps with predictable performance and intelligent tuning to automatically improve your database's performance based on real usage data.
- **Reduced management overhead:** Flexible Server is a fully managed database-as-a-service offering.
- **Migration support:** Flexible Server supports database migration from on-premises Single Server PostgreSQL databases. Microsoft has a [preview migration tool](/azure/postgresql/migrate/concepts-single-to-flexible) to simplify the migration process.
- **Consistency with on-premises configurations:** Azure Database for PostgreSQL supports [many community versions of PostgreSQL](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-supported-versions), including the version that Proseware uses today.
- **Business continunity:** Flexible Server automatically creates [server backups](/azure/postgresql/flexible-server/concepts-backup-restore) and stores them on zone redundant storage (ZRS) within the region. Backups can be used to restore your server to any point-in-time within the backup retention period.  The recovery point objective (RPO) offered by this solution is shorter, and therefore better, than Proseware's current solution.

### Application performance monitoring

Application Insights is a feature of Azure Monitor that provides extensible application performance management (APM) and monitoring for live web apps. We chose to incorporate Application Insights for the following reasons.

- **Anomaly detection:** It automatically detects performance anomalies.
- **Troubleshooting:** It helps diagnose issues in the running app.
- **Telemetry:** It collects information about how users are using the app and allows us to easily send custom events we want to track in our app.

Azure Monitor is a comprehensive suite of monitoring tools to collect data from a variety of Azure services. Review the following concepts to quickly come up to speed on its capabilities:

- [Application Monitoring for Azure App Service and Java](/azure/azure-monitor/app/azure-web-apps-java)
- [Smart detection in application insights](/azure/azure-monitor/alerts/proactive-diagnostics)
- [Application Map: Triaging Distributed Applications](/azure/azure-monitor/app/app-map?tabs=java)
- [Profile live App Service apps with Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/profiler/profiler)
- [Usage analysis with Application Insights](/azure/azure-monitor/app/usage-overview)
- [Getting started with Azure Metrics Explorer](/azure/azure-monitor/essentials/metrics-getting-started)
- [Application Insights Overview dashboard](/azure/azure-monitor/app/overview-dashboard)
- [Log queries in Azure Monitor](/azure/azure-monitor/logs/log-query-overview)

### Cache

[Azure Cache for Redis](/azure-cache-for-redis/cache-overview) is a managed in-memory data store based on the Redis software. The web app needed a cache that provided the following benefits:

- **Reduce management overhead:** It's a fully managed service.
- **Speed and volume:** It has high-data throughput and low latency reads for commonly accessed, slow changing data.
- **Diverse supportability:** It's a unified cache location for all instances of our web app to use.
- **Externalized:** The on-premises application servers performed VM-local caching. This setup didn't offload highly frequented data, and it couldn't invalidate data.
- **Enabling non-sticky sessions:** Externalizing session state supports non-sticky sessions.

### Content delivery network

[Azure Front Door](/azure/frontdoor/front-door-overview) sets up additional features such as Web Application Firewall and positions us to use a content delivery network to provide site acceleration as traffic to the web app increases. We chose Azure Front Door because it provides the following capabilities.

- **Traffic acceleration:** It uses anycast to reach the nearest Azure point of presence and find the fastest route to our web app.
- **Custom domains:** It supports custom domain names with flexible domain validation.
- **Health probes:** The application needed intelligent health probe monitoring. Azure Front Door then uses these responses from the probe to determine the "best" origin to route your client requests.
- **Monitoring support:** It supports built-in reports with an all-in-one dashboard for both Front Door and security patterns. You can configure alerts that integrate with Azure Monitor. It lets the application log each request and failed health probes.
- **DDoS protection:** It has built-in layer 3-4 DDoS protection.

### Web application firewall

[Azure Web Application Firewall](/azure/web-application-firewall/overview) provides centralized protection of your web applications from common exploits and vulnerabilities. It's built into Azure Front Door and prevents malicious attacks close to the attack sources before they enter your virtual network. Azure Web Application Firewall provided the following benefits.

- **Global protection:** It provides global web app protection without sacrificing performance.
- **Botnet protection:** The team can monitor and configure to address security concerns from botnets.
- **Parity with on-premises**: The service allowed us to maintain parity with our on-premises solution, which was running behind a web application firewall managed by IT.

### Secrets manager

[Azure Key Vault](/azure/key-vault/general/overview) provides centralized storage of application secrets to control their distribution. Proseware will use managed identities over secrets where possible, but there are situations where X.509 certificates, connection strings, and pre-shared secrets still need to be stored.  Key Vault was chosen because it provides:

- **Encryption:** It supports encryption at rest and in transit.
- **Supports managed identities:** The application services can use managed identities to access the secret store.
- **Monitoring and logging:** It facilitates audit access and generate alert us when stored secrets change.

### Object storage

Azure Files offers fully managed file shares in the cloud that are accessible via Server Message Block (SMB) protocol, Network File System (NFS) protocol, and Azure Files REST API. The app uses the filesystem to save uploaded training videos.  We used the Azure Files integration in App Service to mount an NFS share, which allows our Tomcat app server to seamlessly access the share. Azure Files is a good fit because it simplified the process of getting our app running on the cloud.

- **Replace existing file server:** Azure Files allows us to replace our existing file server without having to modify our code to use an alternative blob storage mechanism.
- **Fully managed:** Azure file shares allow us to maintain compatibility without needing to manage hardware or operating system for a file server.
- **Resiliency:** Azure Files has been built from the ground up to be always available.
- **Durability.** Azure files has zone-redundant storage to improve data redundancy and application resiliency. For more information, see [Data redundancy](/azure/storage/common/storage-redundancy#redundancy-in-the-primary-region) and [Zone-redundant storage](/azure/storage/common/storage-redundancy#zone-redundant-storage).

### Endpoint security

[Azure Private Link](/azure/private-link/private-link-overview) provides access to PaaS Services (such as, Azure Cache for Redis and Azure Database for PostgreSQL) over a private endpoint in your virtual network. Traffic between your virtual network and the service travels across the Microsoft backbone network. Azure Private DNS with Azure Private Link enables your solution to communicate securely with Azure services without application changes. The web app uses Azure Private Link for the following reasons:

- **Secure communication:** It lets the application privately access services on the Azure platform and reduces the network footprint of data stores to protect against data leakage.
- **Minimal effort:** The private endpoints support the web application platform and database platform the web app uses. Both platforms mirror existing on-premises setup for minimal change.

## Deploy the reference implementation

You can deploy the reference implementation by following the instructions in the [reliable web app pattern for Java repository](https://github.com/Azure/reliable-web-app-pattern-java#reliable-web-app-pattern-for-java). Follow the deployment guide to set up a local development environment and deploy the solution to Azure.

## Next step

You learned how to plan the implementation for the reliable web app pattern. The next step is to apply the reliable web app pattern.

>[!div class="nextstepaction"]
>[Apply the pattern](plan-implementation.yml)
